ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

Lewis Carroll

THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 3.0




CHAPTER I. Down the Rabbit-Hole

Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, 'and what is the use of a book,' thought Alice 'without pictures or
conversations?'

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure
of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so
VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, 'Oh dear!
Oh dear! I shall be late!' (when she thought it over afterwards, it
occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time
it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH
OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on,
Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had
never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch
to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field
after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large
rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep
well.

Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was
going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what
she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed; it was labelled 'ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear
of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as
she fell past it.

'Well!' thought Alice to herself, 'after such a fall as this, I shall
think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at
home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top
of the house!' (Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would the fall NEVER come to an end! 'I wonder how
many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud. 'I must be getting
somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four
thousand miles down, I think--' (for, you see, Alice had learnt several
things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this
was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there
was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over)
'--yes, that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?' (Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or
Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)

Presently she began again. 'I wonder if I shall fall right THROUGH the
earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with
their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think--' (she was rather glad
there WAS no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the
right word) '--but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country
is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and
she tried to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) 'And what an
ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to
ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
talking again. 'Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think!'
(Dinah was the cat.) 'I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no
mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very
like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?' And here Alice
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy
sort of way, 'Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, 'Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question,
it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was dozing
off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with
Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, 'Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:
did you ever eat a bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon
a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another
long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it.
There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and
was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, 'Oh my ears
and whiskers, how late it's getting!' She was close behind it when she
turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when
Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to
get out again.

Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall;
but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small,
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the passage
into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of
that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and
those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the
doorway; 'and even if my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, 'it
would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could
shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin.'
For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately,
that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really
impossible.

There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went
back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at
any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this
time she found a little bottle on it, ('which certainly was not here
before,' said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper
label, with the words 'DRINK ME' beautifully printed on it in large
letters.

It was all very well to say 'Drink me,' but the wise little Alice was
not going to do THAT in a hurry. 'No, I'll look first,' she said, 'and
see whether it's marked "poison" or not'; for she had read several nice
little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild
beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they WOULD not remember
the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot
poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never
forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked 'poison,' it is
almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

However, this bottle was NOT marked 'poison,' so Alice ventured to taste
it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour
of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot
buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'What a curious feeling!' said Alice; 'I must be shutting up like a
telescope.'

And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further:
she felt a little nervous about this; 'for it might end, you know,' said
Alice to herself, 'in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder
what I should be like then?' And she tried to fancy what the flame of a
candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she
went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;
and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing
sat down and cried.

'Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to herself,
rather sharply; 'I advise you to leave off this minute!' She generally
gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it),
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having
cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself,
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people.
'But it's no use now,' thought poor Alice, 'to pretend to be two people!
Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person!'

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table:
she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words
'EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants. 'Well, I'll eat it,' said
Alice, 'and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I'll
get into the garden, and I don't care which happens!'

She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, 'Which way? Which
way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was
growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on
in the common way.

So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




CHAPTER II. The Pool of Tears

'Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English); 'now I'm
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!'
(for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of
sight, they were getting so far off). 'Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder
who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure
_I_ shan't be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble
myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;--but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, 'or perhaps they won't walk the way I want
to go! Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.'

And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. 'They must
go by the carrier,' she thought; 'and how funny it'll seem, sending
presents to one's own feet! And how odd the directions will look!

     ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
       HEARTHRUG,
         NEAR THE FENDER,
           (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was
now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden
key and hurried off to the garden door.

Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more
hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.

'You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, 'a great girl like
you,' (she might well say this), 'to go on crying in this way! Stop this
moment, I tell you!' But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of
tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches
deep and reaching half down the hall.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in
one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great
hurry, muttering to himself as he came, 'Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess!
Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting!' Alice felt so
desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, 'If you please, sir--'
The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan,
and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.

Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: 'Dear, dear! How
queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual.
I wonder if I've been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the
same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a
little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who
in the world am I? Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!' And she began thinking
over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to
see if she could have been changed for any of them.

'I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, 'for her hair goes in such long
ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't
be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a
very little! Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I, and--oh dear, how puzzling
it all is! I'll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me
see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and
four times seven is--oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate!
However, the Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and
Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for
Mabel! I'll try and say "How doth the little--"' and she crossed her
hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it,
but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the
same as they used to do:--

     'How doth the little crocodile
      Improve his shining tail,
     And pour the waters of the Nile
      On every golden scale!

     'How cheerfully he seems to grin,
      How neatly spread his claws,
     And welcome little fishes in
      With gently smiling jaws!'

'I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and her eyes
filled with tears again as she went on, 'I must be Mabel after all, and
I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to
no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I've
made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here! It'll be no
use their putting their heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I
shall only look up and say "Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then,
if I like being that person, I'll come up: if not, I'll stay down here
till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a sudden burst
of tears, 'I do wish they WOULD put their heads down! I am so VERY tired
of being all alone here!'

As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see
that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white kid gloves while
she was talking. 'How CAN I have done that?' she thought. 'I must
be growing small again.' She got up and went to the table to measure
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now
about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found
out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped
it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at the
sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; 'and
now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed back to the little door:
but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was
lying on the glass table as before, 'and things are worse than ever,'
thought the poor child, 'for I never was so small as this before, never!
And I declare it's too bad, that it is!'

As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash!
she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she
had somehow fallen into the sea, 'and in that case I can go back by
railway,' she said to herself. (Alice had been to the seaside once in
her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go
to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the
sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row
of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon
made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she
was nine feet high.

'I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about, trying
to find her way out. 'I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by
being drowned in my own tears! That WILL be a queer thing, to be sure!
However, everything is queer to-day.'

Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way
off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought
it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had
slipped in like herself.

'Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, 'to speak to this mouse?
Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very
likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no harm in trying.' So she
began: 'O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired
of swimming about here, O Mouse!' (Alice thought this must be the right
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but
she remembered having seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, 'A mouse--of
a mouse--to a mouse--a mouse--O mouse!') The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes,
but it said nothing.

'Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; 'I daresay it's
a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.' (For, with all
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
anything had happened.) So she began again: 'Ou est ma chatte?' which
was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a
sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
'Oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt
the poor animal's feelings. 'I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

'Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. 'Would
YOU like cats if you were me?'

'Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone: 'don't be angry
about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd
take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet
thing,' Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the
pool, 'and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and
washing her face--and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's
such a capital one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried
Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she
felt certain it must be really offended. 'We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

'We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his
tail. 'As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always HATED
cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear the name again!'

'I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of
conversation. 'Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?' The Mouse did not
answer, so Alice went on eagerly: 'There is such a nice little dog near
our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you
know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it'll fetch things when
you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts
of things--I can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer,
you know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds! He
says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a sorrowful
tone, 'I'm afraid I've offended it again!' For the Mouse was swimming
away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in
the pool as it went.

So she called softly after it, 'Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we
won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't like them!' When the
Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its
face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
trembling voice, 'Let us get to the shore, and then I'll tell you my
history, and you'll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the
birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo,
a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the
way, and the whole party swam to the shore.




CHAPTER III. A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale

They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank--the
birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.

The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural
to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had
known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the
Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, 'I am older than
you, and must know better'; and this Alice would not allow without
knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its
age, there was no more to be said.

At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
called out, 'Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I'LL soon make you
dry enough!' They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse
in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt
sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.

'Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, 'are you all ready? This
is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! "William
the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted
to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much
accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of
Mercia and Northumbria--"'

'Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

'I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: 'Did
you speak?'

'Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

'I thought you did,' said the Mouse. '--I proceed. "Edwin and Morcar,
the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand,
the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable--"'

'Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

'Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly: 'of course you know what
"it" means.'

'I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said the
Duck: 'it's generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the
archbishop find?'

The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, '"--found
it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the
crown. William's conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his
Normans--" How are you getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning
to Alice as it spoke.

'As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone: 'it doesn't seem to
dry me at all.'

'In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, 'I move
that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic
remedies--'

'Speak English!' said the Eaglet. 'I don't know the meaning of half
those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!' And
the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds
tittered audibly.

'What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone, 'was, that
the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

'What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much to know,
but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY ought to speak,
and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

'Why,' said the Dodo, 'the best way to explain it is to do it.' (And, as
you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell
you how the Dodo managed it.)

First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, ('the exact
shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party were placed
along the course, here and there. There was no 'One, two, three, and
away,' but they began running when they liked, and left off when they
liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However,
when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again,
the Dodo suddenly called out 'The race is over!' and they all crowded
round it, panting, and asking, 'But who has won?'

This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought,
and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead
(the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures
of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo said,
'EVERYBODY has won, and all must have prizes.'

'But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices asked.

'Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger;
and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused
way, 'Prizes! Prizes!'

Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had
not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one
a-piece all round.

'But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

'Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely. 'What else have you got in
your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

'Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

'Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly
presented the thimble, saying 'We beg your acceptance of this elegant
thimble'; and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything
to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she
could.

The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and
confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back.
However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and
begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

'You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice, 'and why
it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half afraid that it
would be offended again.

'Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and
sighing.

'It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with wonder at
the Mouse's tail; 'but why do you call it sad?' And she kept on puzzling
about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was
something like this:--

         'Fury said to a
         mouse, That he
        met in the
       house,
     "Let us
      both go to
       law: I will
        prosecute
         YOU.--Come,
           I'll take no
           denial; We
          must have a
        trial: For
      really this
     morning I've
    nothing
    to do."
     Said the
      mouse to the
       cur, "Such
        a trial,
         dear Sir,
            With
          no jury
        or judge,
       would be
      wasting
      our
      breath."
       "I'll be
        judge, I'll
         be jury,"
            Said
         cunning
          old Fury:
          "I'll
          try the
            whole
            cause,
              and
           condemn
           you
          to
           death."'


'You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely. 'What are you
thinking of?'

'I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly: 'you had got to the fifth
bend, I think?'

'I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

'A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
anxiously about her. 'Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

'I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up and walking
away. 'You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

'I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice. 'But you're so easily offended,
you know!'

The Mouse only growled in reply.

'Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after it; and the
others all joined in chorus, 'Yes, please do!' but the Mouse only shook
its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.

'What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite
out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her
daughter 'Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose
YOUR temper!' 'Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the young Crab, a little
snappishly. 'You're enough to try the patience of an oyster!'

'I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud, addressing
nobody in particular. 'She'd soon fetch it back!'

'And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?' said the
Lory.

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
'Dinah's our cat. And she's such a capital one for catching mice you
can't think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why,
she'll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!'

This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very
carefully, remarking, 'I really must be getting home; the night-air
doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to
its children, 'Come away, my dears! It's high time you were all in bed!'
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

'I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a melancholy
tone. 'Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm sure she's the best
cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you
any more!' And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard
a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up
eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming
back to finish his story.




CHAPTER IV. The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill

It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard
it muttering to itself 'The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh
my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are
ferrets! Where CAN I have dropped them, I wonder?' Alice guessed in a
moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves,
and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her swim in
the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door,
had vanished completely.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
called out to her in an angry tone, 'Why, Mary Ann, what ARE you doing
out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan!
Quick, now!' And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once
in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it
had made.

'He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran. 'How
surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am! But I'd better take him
his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.' As she said this, she
came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass
plate with the name 'W. RABBIT' engraved upon it. She went in without
knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the
real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the
fan and gloves.

'How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, 'to be going messages for
a rabbit! I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on messages next!' And she
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: '"Miss Alice! Come
here directly, and get ready for your walk!" "Coming in a minute,
nurse! But I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out." Only I don't
think,' Alice went on, 'that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it
began ordering people about like that!'

By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table
in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs
of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves,
and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little
bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label this time
with the words 'DRINK ME,' but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it
to her lips. 'I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said
to herself, 'whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what
this bottle does. I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for really
I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had
drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling,
and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put
down the bottle, saying to herself 'That's quite enough--I hope I shan't
grow any more--As it is, I can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't
drunk quite so much!'

Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing,
and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there
was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with
one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head.
Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out
of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself 'Now I
can do no more, whatever happens. What WILL become of me?'

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there
seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room
again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

'It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, 'when one wasn't
always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and
rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole--and yet--and
yet--it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what
CAN have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that
kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!
There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I
grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a sorrowful
tone; 'at least there's no room to grow up any more HERE.'

'But then,' thought Alice, 'shall I NEVER get any older than I am
now? That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--but
then--always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!'

'Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself. 'How can you learn
lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no room at all
for any lesson-books!'

And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making
quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard
a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

'Mary Ann! Mary Ann!' said the voice. 'Fetch me my gloves this moment!'
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was
the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the
house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large
as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.

Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as
the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself 'Then I'll
go round and get in at the window.'

'THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her
hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything,
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass,
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--'Pat! Pat! Where are you?' And
then a voice she had never heard before, 'Sure then I'm here! Digging
for apples, yer honour!'

'Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily. 'Here! Come and
help me out of THIS!' (Sounds of more broken glass.)

'Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

'Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!' (He pronounced it 'arrum.')

'An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole
window!'

'Sure, it does, yer honour: but it's an arm for all that.'

'Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!'

There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then; such as, 'Sure, I don't like it, yer honour, at all, at
all!' 'Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at last she spread out her
hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
TWO little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. 'What a number of
cucumber-frames there must be!' thought Alice. 'I wonder what they'll do
next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD! I'm
sure I don't want to stay in here any longer!'

She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices
all talking together: she made out the words: 'Where's the other
ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one; Bill's got the other--Bill!
fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up at this corner--No, tie 'em
together first--they don't reach half high enough yet--Oh! they'll
do well enough; don't be particular--Here, Bill! catch hold of this
rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind that loose slate--Oh, it's coming
down! Heads below!' (a loud crash)--'Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I
fancy--Who's to go down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I
won't, then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

'Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said Alice to
herself. 'Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn't be in
Bill's place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but
I THINK I can kick a little!'

She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited
till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what sort it was)
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then,
saying to herself 'This is Bill,' she gave one sharp kick, and waited to
see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of 'There goes Bill!'
then the Rabbit's voice along--'Catch him, you by the hedge!' then
silence, and then another confusion of voices--'Hold up his head--Brandy
now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell
us all about it!'

Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, ('That's Bill,' thought
Alice,) 'Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm better now--but I'm
a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know is, something comes at me
like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!'

'So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

'We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and Alice called
out as loud as she could, 'If you do. I'll set Dinah at you!'

There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, 'I
wonder what they WILL do next! If they had any sense, they'd take the
roof off.' After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and
Alice heard the Rabbit say, 'A barrowful will do, to begin with.'

'A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the
window, and some of them hit her in the face. 'I'll put a stop to this,'
she said to herself, and shouted out, 'You'd better not do that again!'
which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her
head. 'If I eat one of these cakes,' she thought, 'it's sure to make
SOME change in my size; and as it can't possibly make me larger, it must
make me smaller, I suppose.'

So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through
the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little
animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was
in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
safe in a thick wood.

'The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she wandered
about in the wood, 'is to grow to my right size again; and the second
thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be
the best plan.'

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among
the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a
great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. 'Poor little thing!'
said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but
she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be
hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of
all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick,
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then
the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very
little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely
all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with
its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and
till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the distance.

'And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she leant
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the
leaves: 'I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if--if I'd
only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I'd nearly forgotten that
I've got to grow up again! Let me see--how IS it to be managed? I
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great
question is, what?'

The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that
looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as
herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
was on the top of it.

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar,
that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long
hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else.




CHAPTER V. Advice from a Caterpillar

The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence:
at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed
her in a languid, sleepy voice.

'Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
rather shyly, 'I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--at least I know
who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then.'

'What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly. 'Explain
yourself!'

'I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, 'because I'm not
myself, you see.'

'I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

'I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very politely,
'for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and being so many
different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

'It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

'Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; 'but when you
have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you know--and then
after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little
queer, won't you?'

'Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

'Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice; 'all I know
is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

'You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously. 'Who are YOU?'

Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making such VERY
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, 'I think,
you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

'Why?' said the Caterpillar.

Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a VERY unpleasant
state of mind, she turned away.

'Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her. 'I've something important
to say!'

This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.

'Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.

'Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she
could.

'No,' said the Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and
perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some
minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its
arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, 'So you think
you're changed, do you?'

'I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; 'I can't remember things as I
used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

'Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

'Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it all came
different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

'Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began:--

   'You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
    'And your hair has become very white;
   And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

   'In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
    'I feared it might injure the brain;
   But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again.'

   'You are old,' said the youth, 'as I mentioned before,
    And have grown most uncommonly fat;
   Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
    Pray, what is the reason of that?'

   'In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
    'I kept all my limbs very supple
   By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
    Allow me to sell you a couple?'

   'You are old,' said the youth, 'and your jaws are too weak
    For anything tougher than suet;
   Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
    Pray how did you manage to do it?'

   'In my youth,' said his father, 'I took to the law,
    And argued each case with my wife;
   And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
    Has lasted the rest of my life.'

   'You are old,' said the youth, 'one would hardly suppose
    That your eye was as steady as ever;
   Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
    What made you so awfully clever?'

   'I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
    Said his father; 'don't give yourself airs!
   Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
    Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


'That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

'Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; 'some of the words
have got altered.'

'It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar decidedly, and
there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

'What size do you want to be?' it asked.

'Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied; 'only one
doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

'I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

'Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

'Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you wouldn't mind,'
said Alice: 'three inches is such a wretched height to be.'

'It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing
itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).

'But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And
she thought of herself, 'I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily
offended!'

'You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it put the
hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In
a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth
and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the
mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went,
'One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you
grow shorter.'

'One side of WHAT? The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to herself.

'Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying
to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly
round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she
stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit
of the edge with each hand.

'And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a little of
the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent
blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!

She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed
so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the
lefthand bit.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of delight, which
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
sea of green leaves that lay far below her.

'What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice. 'And where HAVE my
shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can't see you?'
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she
tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her
neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had
just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going
to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops
of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made
her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and
was beating her violently with its wings.

'Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

'I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly. 'Let me alone!'

'Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone,
and added with a kind of sob, 'I've tried every way, and nothing seems
to suit them!'

'I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said Alice.

'I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried
hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; 'but those
serpents! There's no pleasing them!'

Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

'As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the Pigeon;
'but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

'I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was beginning to
see its meaning.

'And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued the
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, 'and just as I was thinking I
should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from
the sky! Ugh, Serpent!'

'But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice. 'I'm a--I'm a--'

'Well! WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon. 'I can see you're trying to
invent something!'

'I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
the number of changes she had gone through that day.

'A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
contempt. 'I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never ONE
with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent; and there's no use
denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me next that you never tasted an
egg!'

'I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very truthful
child; 'but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you
know.'

'I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; 'but if they do, why then they're
a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, 'You're
looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and what does it matter to me
whether you're a little girl or a serpent?'

'It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; 'but I'm not looking
for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't want YOURS: I don't
like them raw.'

'Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as
she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and
every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she
remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and
she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the
other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
and began talking to herself, as usual. 'Come, there's half my plan done
now! How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going
to be, from one minute to another! However, I've got back to my right
size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that
to be done, I wonder?' As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open
place, with a little house in it about four feet high. 'Whoever lives
there,' thought Alice, 'it'll never do to come upon them THIS size: why,
I should frighten them out of their wits!' So she began nibbling at the
righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she
had brought herself down to nine inches high.




CHAPTER VI. Pig and Pepper

For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what
to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the
wood--(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery:
otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a
fish)--and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened
by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a
frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all
over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all about,
and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
saying, in a solemn tone, 'For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen
to play croquet.' The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn tone,
only changing the order of the words a little, 'From the Queen. An
invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.'

Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the
wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the
door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

'There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, 'and that for
two reasons. First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you
are; secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could
possibly hear you.' And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise
going on within--a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then
a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.

'Please, then,' said Alice, 'how am I to get in?'

'There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went on
without attending to her, 'if we had the door between us. For instance,
if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.'
He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this
Alice thought decidedly uncivil. 'But perhaps he can't help it,' she
said to herself; 'his eyes are so VERY nearly at the top of his head.
But at any rate he might answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she
repeated, aloud.

'I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, 'till tomorrow--'

At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at the Footman's head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him.

'--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly
as if nothing had happened.

'How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

'ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman. 'That's the first
question, you know.'

It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. 'It's really
dreadful,' she muttered to herself, 'the way all the creatures argue.
It's enough to drive one crazy!'

The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations. 'I shall sit here,' he said, 'on and off, for
days and days.'

'But what am I to do?' said Alice.

'Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

'Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately: 'he's
perfectly idiotic!' And she opened the door and went in.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in
the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring
a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.

'There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to herself,
as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess
sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling
alternately without a moment's pause. The only things in the kitchen
that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on
the hearth and grinning from ear to ear.

'Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for she was
not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, 'why
your cat grins like that?'

'It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, 'and that's why. Pig!'

She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby,
and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:--

'I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know
that cats COULD grin.'

'They all can,' said the Duchess; 'and most of 'em do.'

'I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely, feeling quite
pleased to have got into a conversation.

'You don't know much,' said the Duchess; 'and that's a fact.'

Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby--the fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

'Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up and down in
an agony of terror. 'Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS nose'; as an unusually
large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off.

'If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a hoarse
growl, 'the world would go round a deal faster than it does.'

'Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very glad to get
an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. 'Just think of
what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes
twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis--'

'Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, 'chop off her head!'

Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to
be listening, so she went on again: 'Twenty-four hours, I THINK; or is
it twelve? I--'

'Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; 'I never could abide figures!'
And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of
lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of
every line:

   'Speak roughly to your little boy,
    And beat him when he sneezes:
   He only does it to annoy,
    Because he knows it teases.'

         CHORUS.

 (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

       'Wow! wow! wow!'

While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing
the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so,
that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

   'I speak severely to my boy,
    I beat him when he sneezes;
   For he can thoroughly enjoy
    The pepper when he pleases!'

         CHORUS.

       'Wow! wow! wow!'

'Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said to Alice,
flinging the baby at her as she spoke. 'I must go and get ready to play
croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw
a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, 'just
like a star-fish,' thought Alice. The poor little thing was snorting
like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and
straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute
or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.

As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to
twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right
ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried
it out into the open air. 'IF I don't take this child away with me,'
thought Alice, 'they're sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn't it be
murder to leave it behind?' She said the last words out loud, and the
little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).
'Don't grunt,' said Alice; 'that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to
see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had
a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its
eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not
like the look of the thing at all. 'But perhaps it was only sobbing,'
she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any
tears.

No, there were no tears. 'If you're going to turn into a pig, my dear,'
said Alice, seriously, 'I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
now!' The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible
to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.

Alice was just beginning to think to herself, 'Now, what am I to do with
this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted again, so violently,
that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could
be NO mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she
felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further.

So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see
it trot away quietly into the wood. 'If it had grown up,' she said
to herself, 'it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes
rather a handsome pig, I think.' And she began thinking over other
children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying
to herself, 'if one only knew the right way to change them--' when she
was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a
tree a few yards off.

The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
thought: still it had VERY long claws and a great many teeth, so she
felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

'Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider.
'Come, it's pleased so far,' thought Alice, and she went on. 'Would you
tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?'

'That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said the Cat.

'I don't much care where--' said Alice.

'Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

'--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

'Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, 'if you only walk long
enough.'

Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question.
'What sort of people live about here?'

'In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round, 'lives
a Hatter: and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw, 'lives a March
Hare. Visit either you like: they're both mad.'

'But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

'Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat: 'we're all mad here. I'm mad.
You're mad.'

'How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

'You must be,' said the Cat, 'or you wouldn't have come here.'

Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on 'And how
do you know that you're mad?'

'To begin with,' said the Cat, 'a dog's not mad. You grant that?'

'I suppose so,' said Alice.

'Well, then,' the Cat went on, 'you see, a dog growls when it's angry,
and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now I growl when I'm pleased, and
wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore I'm mad.'

'I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

'Call it what you like,' said the Cat. 'Do you play croquet with the
Queen to-day?'

'I should like it very much,' said Alice, 'but I haven't been invited
yet.'

'You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been,
it suddenly appeared again.

'By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat. 'I'd nearly
forgotten to ask.'

'It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
in a natural way.

'I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in
which the March Hare was said to live. 'I've seen hatters before,' she
said to herself; 'the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and
perhaps as this is May it won't be raving mad--at least not so mad as
it was in March.' As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat
again, sitting on a branch of a tree.

'Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

'I said pig,' replied Alice; 'and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and
vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.'

'All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which
remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

'Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice; 'but a grin
without a cat! It's the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!'

She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house
of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the
chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It
was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had
nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to
about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly,
saying to herself 'Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost
wish I'd gone to see the Hatter instead!'




CHAPTER VII. A Mad Tea-Party

There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the
March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting
between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a
cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. 'Very
uncomfortable for the Dormouse,' thought Alice; 'only, as it's asleep, I
suppose it doesn't mind.'

The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at
one corner of it: 'No room! No room!' they cried out when they saw Alice
coming. 'There's PLENTY of room!' said Alice indignantly, and she sat
down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.

'Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
'I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

'There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

'Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice angrily.

'It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited,' said
the March Hare.

'I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; 'it's laid for a great
many more than three.'

'Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter. He had been looking at Alice
for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.

'You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said with some
severity; 'it's very rude.'

The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he SAID
was, 'Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

'Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice. 'I'm glad they've
begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she added aloud.

'Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?' said the
March Hare.

'Exactly so,' said Alice.

'Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

'I do,' Alice hastily replied; 'at least--at least I mean what I
say--that's the same thing, you know.'

'Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter. 'You might just as well say
that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat what I see"!'

'You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, 'that "I like what I
get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

'You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to be
talking in his sleep, 'that "I breathe when I sleep" is the same thing
as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

'It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice
thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks,
which wasn't much.

The Hatter was the first to break the silence. 'What day of the month
is it?' he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then,
and holding it to his ear.

Alice considered a little, and then said 'The fourth.'

'Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter. 'I told you butter wouldn't suit
the works!' he added looking angrily at the March Hare.

'It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

'Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter grumbled:
'you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped
it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of
nothing better to say than his first remark, 'It was the BEST butter,
you know.'

Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. 'What a
funny watch!' she remarked. 'It tells the day of the month, and doesn't
tell what o'clock it is!'

'Why should it?' muttered the Hatter. 'Does YOUR watch tell you what
year it is?'

'Of course not,' Alice replied very readily: 'but that's because it
stays the same year for such a long time together.'

'Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter's remark seemed to have no
sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. 'I don't quite
understand you,' she said, as politely as she could.

'The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured a little
hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
eyes, 'Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself.'

'Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to Alice
again.

'No, I give it up,' Alice replied: 'what's the answer?'

'I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

'Nor I,' said the March Hare.

Alice sighed wearily. 'I think you might do something better with the
time,' she said, 'than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers.'

'If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, 'you wouldn't talk
about wasting IT. It's HIM.'

'I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

'Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
'I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

'Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied: 'but I know I have to beat time
when I learn music.'

'Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter. 'He won't stand beating.
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything
you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in
the morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a
hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one,
time for dinner!'

('I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.)

'That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully: 'but then--I
shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

'Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter: 'but you could keep it to
half-past one as long as you liked.'

'Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully. 'Not I!' he replied. 'We
quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--' (pointing
with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) '--it was at the great concert
given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

     "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
     How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

'I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

'It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, 'in this way:--

     "Up above the world you fly,
     Like a tea-tray in the sky.
         Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep 'Twinkle,
twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that they had to pinch
it to make it stop.

'Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter, 'when the
Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the time! Off with his
head!"'

'How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

'And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, 'he won't
do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock now.'

A bright idea came into Alice's head. 'Is that the reason so many
tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

'Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh: 'it's always tea-time,
and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

'Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

'Exactly so,' said the Hatter: 'as the things get used up.'

'But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice ventured
to ask.

'Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted, yawning.
'I'm getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.'

'I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at the
proposal.

'Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried. 'Wake up, Dormouse!' And
they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. 'I wasn't asleep,' he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice: 'I heard every word you fellows were saying.'

'Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

'Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

'And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, 'or you'll be asleep again
before it's done.'

'Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the Dormouse began
in a great hurry; 'and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and
they lived at the bottom of a well--'

'What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great interest in
questions of eating and drinking.

'They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or
two.

'They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently remarked; 'they'd
have been ill.'

'So they were,' said the Dormouse; 'VERY ill.'

Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of
living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: 'But
why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

'Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.

'I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, 'so I can't
take more.'

'You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter: 'it's very easy to take
MORE than nothing.'

'Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

'Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked triumphantly.

Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself
to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and
repeated her question. 'Why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then
said, 'It was a treacle-well.'

'There's no such thing!' Alice was beginning very angrily, but the
Hatter and the March Hare went 'Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse sulkily
remarked, 'If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the story for
yourself.'

'No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; 'I won't interrupt again. I
dare say there may be ONE.'

'One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to
go on. 'And so these three little sisters--they were learning to draw,
you know--'

'What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

'Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.

'I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter: 'let's all move one place
on.'

He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare
moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather unwillingly took
the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any
advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than
before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.

Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very
cautiously: 'But I don't understand. Where did they draw the treacle
from?'

'You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; 'so I should
think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh, stupid?'

'But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing to
notice this last remark.

'Of course they were', said the Dormouse; '--well in.'

This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for
some time without interrupting it.

'They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing
its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; 'and they drew all manner of
things--everything that begins with an M--'

'Why with an M?' said Alice.

'Why not?' said the March Hare.

Alice was silent.

The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into
a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with
a little shriek, and went on: '--that begins with an M, such as
mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--you know you say
things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever see such a thing as a
drawing of a muchness?'

'Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, 'I don't
think--'

'Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in
great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and
neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she
looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her:
the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into
the teapot.

'At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she picked her
way through the wood. 'It's the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all
my life!'

Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door
leading right into it. 'That's very curious!' she thought. 'But
everything's curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.' And in
she went.

Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little
glass table. 'Now, I'll manage better this time,' she said to herself,
and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that
led into the garden. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom (she
had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot high:
then she walked down the little passage: and THEN--she found herself at
last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.




CHAPTER VIII. The Queen's Croquet-Ground

A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses
growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went
nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of
them say, 'Look out now, Five! Don't go splashing paint over me like
that!'

'I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; 'Seven jogged my
elbow.'

On which Seven looked up and said, 'That's right, Five! Always lay the
blame on others!'

'YOU'D better not talk!' said Five. 'I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

'What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

'That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

'Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, 'and I'll tell him--it was for
bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun 'Well, of all the unjust
things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching
them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and
all of them bowed low.

'Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, 'why you are painting
those roses?'

Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low
voice, 'Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a
RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen
was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know.
So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore she comes, to--' At this
moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called
out 'The Queen! The Queen!' and the three gardeners instantly threw
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps,
and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like
the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the
corners: next the ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with
diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came
the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came
jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented
with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among
them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried
nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King's
crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand
procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard
of such a rule at processions; 'and besides, what would be the use of
a procession,' thought she, 'if people had all to lie down upon their
faces, so that they couldn't see it?' So she stood still where she was,
and waited.

When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked
at her, and the Queen said severely 'Who is this?' She said it to the
Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.

'Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to
Alice, she went on, 'What's your name, child?'

'My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very politely;
but she added, to herself, 'Why, they're only a pack of cards, after
all. I needn't be afraid of them!'

'And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who
were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as they were lying on their
faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the
pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or
courtiers, or three of her own children.

'How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage. 'It's no
business of MINE.'

The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a
moment like a wild beast, screamed 'Off with her head! Off--'

'Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was
silent.

The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said 'Consider, my
dear: she is only a child!'

The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave 'Turn them
over!'

The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

'Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen,
the royal children, and everybody else.

'Leave off that!' screamed the Queen. 'You make me giddy.' And then,
turning to the rose-tree, she went on, 'What HAVE you been doing here?'

'May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone, going
down on one knee as he spoke, 'we were trying--'

'I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses.
'Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on, three of the
soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran
to Alice for protection.

'You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a large
flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a
minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the
others.

'Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

'Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers shouted
in reply.

'That's right!' shouted the Queen. 'Can you play croquet?'

The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was
evidently meant for her.

'Yes!' shouted Alice.

'Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession,
wondering very much what would happen next.

'It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side. She was
walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.

'Very,' said Alice: '--where's the Duchess?'

'Hush! Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked
anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon
tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered 'She's under
sentence of execution.'

'What for?' said Alice.

'Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

'No, I didn't,' said Alice: 'I don't think it's at all a pity. I said
"What for?"'

'She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little
scream of laughter. 'Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a frightened
tone. 'The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the
Queen said--'

'Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each
other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game
began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in
her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs,
the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves
up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo:
she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under
her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she had got
its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a
blow with its head, it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face,
with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out
laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin
again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was
generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the
hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up
and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the
conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed.

The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling
all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short
time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and
shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her head!' about once in a
minute.

Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any
dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute,
'and then,' thought she, 'what would become of me? They're dreadfully
fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there's any one
left alive!'

She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she
could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance
in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it
a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself
'It's the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.'

'How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth
enough for it to speak with.

Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. 'It's no use
speaking to it,' she thought, 'till its ears have come, or at least one
of them.' In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put
down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad
she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was
enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

'I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather a
complaining tone, 'and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't hear
oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in particular;
at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and you've no idea how
confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there's the
arch I've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the
ground--and I should have croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only
it ran away when it saw mine coming!'

'How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

'Not at all,' said Alice: 'she's so extremely--' Just then she noticed
that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on,
'--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while finishing the game.'

The Queen smiled and passed on.

'Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and looking
at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

'It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice: 'allow me to
introduce it.'

'I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King: 'however, it may
kiss my hand if it likes.'

'I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

'Don't be impertinent,' said the King, 'and don't look at me like that!'
He got behind Alice as he spoke.

'A cat may look at a king,' said Alice. 'I've read that in some book,
but I don't remember where.'

'Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and he called
the Queen, who was passing at the moment, 'My dear! I wish you would
have this cat removed!'

The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small.
'Off with his head!' she said, without even looking round.

'I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and he
hurried off.

Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going
on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance, screaming with
passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be
executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look
of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew
whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.

The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
other: the only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the
other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless
sort of way to fly up into a tree.

By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight
was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: 'but it doesn't
matter much,' thought Alice, 'as all the arches are gone from this side
of the ground.' So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not
escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her
friend.

When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a
large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between
the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once,
while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.

The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they
all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly
what they said.

The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a head unless
there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a
thing before, and he wasn't going to begin at HIS time of life.

The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about it in less
than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round. (It was this last
remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.)

Alice could think of nothing else to say but 'It belongs to the Duchess:
you'd better ask HER about it.'

'She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner: 'fetch her here.'
And the executioner went off like an arrow.

 The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down
looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.




CHAPTER IX. The Mock Turtle's Story

'You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!'
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's, and
they walked off together.

Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so
savage when they met in the kitchen.

'When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful tone
though), 'I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL. Soup does very
well without--Maybe it's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered,'
she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of
rule, 'and vinegar that makes them sour--and camomile that makes
them bitter--and--and barley-sugar and such things that make children
sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that: then they wouldn't be so
stingy about it, you know--'

She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little
startled when she heard her voice close to her ear. 'You're thinking
about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can't
tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in
a bit.'

'Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

'Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess. 'Everything's got a moral, if only
you can find it.' And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as
she spoke.

Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the
Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the
right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder, and it was an
uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she
bore it as well as she could.

'The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of keeping up
the conversation a little.

''Tis so,' said the Duchess: 'and the moral of that is--"Oh, 'tis love,
'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

'Somebody said,' Alice whispered, 'that it's done by everybody minding
their own business!'

'Ah, well! It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess, digging her
sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added, 'and the moral
of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of
themselves."'

'How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to herself.

'I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist,'
the Duchess said after a pause: 'the reason is, that I'm doubtful about
the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?'

'HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to
have the experiment tried.

'Very true,' said the Duchess: 'flamingoes and mustard both bite. And
the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock together."'

'Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

'Right, as usual,' said the Duchess: 'what a clear way you have of
putting things!'

'It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

'Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to
everything that Alice said; 'there's a large mustard-mine near here. And
the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the less there is of
yours."'

'Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last remark,
'it's a vegetable. It doesn't look like one, but it is.'

'I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; 'and the moral of that
is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put more
simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might
appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise
than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise."'

'I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very politely, 'if
I had it written down: but I can't quite follow it as you say it.'

'That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess replied, in
a pleased tone.

'Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,' said
Alice.

'Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess. 'I make you a present
of everything I've said as yet.'

'A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice. 'I'm glad they don't give
birthday presents like that!' But she did not venture to say it out
loud.

'Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp
little chin.

'I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to
feel a little worried.

'Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, 'as pigs have to fly; and
the m--'

But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died away, even
in the middle of her favourite word 'moral,' and the arm that was linked
into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen
in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.

'A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.

'Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on the
ground as she spoke; 'either you or your head must be off, and that in
about half no time! Take your choice!'

The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

'Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was
too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the
croquet-ground.

The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence, and were
resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried
back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment's delay would
cost them their lives.

All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with
the other players, and shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her
head!' Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers,
who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by
the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the
players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and
under sentence of execution.

Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, 'Have
you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

'No,' said Alice. 'I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

'It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

'I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

'Come on, then,' said the Queen, 'and he shall tell you his history,'

As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice,
to the company generally, 'You are all pardoned.' 'Come, THAT'S a good
thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the
number of executions the Queen had ordered.

They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun.
(IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) 'Up, lazy
thing!' said the Queen, 'and take this young lady to see the Mock
Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some
executions I have ordered'; and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with
the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on
the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go
after that savage Queen: so she waited.

The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till
she was out of sight: then it chuckled. 'What fun!' said the Gryphon,
half to itself, half to Alice.

'What IS the fun?' said Alice.

'Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon. 'It's all her fancy, that: they never
executes nobody, you know. Come on!'

'Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went slowly
after it: 'I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!'

They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance,
sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came
nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
pitied him deeply. 'What is his sorrow?' she asked the Gryphon, and the
Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, 'It's all his
fancy, that: he hasn't got no sorrow, you know. Come on!'

So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes
full of tears, but said nothing.

'This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, 'she wants for to know your
history, she do.'

'I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: 'sit
down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished.'

So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to
herself, 'I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he doesn't begin.' But
she waited patiently.

'Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, 'I was a real
Turtle.'

These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an
occasional exclamation of 'Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and the constant
heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and
saying, 'Thank you, sir, for your interesting story,' but she could
not help thinking there MUST be more to come, so she sat still and said
nothing.

'When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly,
though still sobbing a little now and then, 'we went to school in the
sea. The master was an old Turtle--we used to call him Tortoise--'

'Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

'We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock Turtle
angrily: 'really you are very dull!'

'You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question,'
added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor
Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said
to the Mock Turtle, 'Drive on, old fellow! Don't be all day about it!'
and he went on in these words:

'Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe it--'

'I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

'You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

'Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again.
The Mock Turtle went on.

'We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school every day--'

'I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; 'you needn't be so proud
as all that.'

'With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

'Yes,' said Alice, 'we learned French and music.'

'And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

'Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

'Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock Turtle in
a tone of great relief. 'Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill,
"French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

'You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; 'living at the bottom of
the sea.'

'I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a sigh. 'I
only took the regular course.'

'What was that?' inquired Alice.

'Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock Turtle
replied; 'and then the different branches of Arithmetic--Ambition,
Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

'I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say. 'What is it?'

The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. 'What! Never heard of
uglifying!' it exclaimed. 'You know what to beautify is, I suppose?'

'Yes,' said Alice doubtfully: 'it means--to--make--anything--prettier.'

'Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, 'if you don't know what to uglify is,
you ARE a simpleton.'

Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she
turned to the Mock Turtle, and said 'What else had you to learn?'

'Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting off
the subjects on his flappers, '--Mystery, ancient and modern, with
Seaography: then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel,
that used to come once a week: HE taught us Drawling, Stretching, and
Fainting in Coils.'

'What was THAT like?' said Alice.

'Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said: 'I'm too
stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

'Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon: 'I went to the Classics master, though.
He was an old crab, HE was.'

'I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: 'he taught
Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

'So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both
creatures hid their faces in their paws.

'And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a hurry to
change the subject.

'Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: 'nine the next, and so
on.'

'What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

'That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon remarked:
'because they lessen from day to day.'

This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little
before she made her next remark. 'Then the eleventh day must have been a
holiday?'

'Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

'And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

'That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided
tone: 'tell her something about the games now.'




CHAPTER X. The Lobster Quadrille

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
two sobs choked his voice. 'Same as if he had a bone in his throat,'
said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in
the back. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears
running down his cheeks, he went on again:--

'You may not have lived much under the sea--' ('I haven't,' said
Alice)--'and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say 'I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily, and
said 'No, never') '--so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a
Lobster Quadrille is!'

'No, indeed,' said Alice. 'What sort of a dance is it?'

'Why,' said the Gryphon, 'you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

'Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle. 'Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on;
then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way--'

'THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

'--you advance twice--'

'Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

'Of course,' the Mock Turtle said: 'advance twice, set to partners--'

'--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the Gryphon.

'Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, 'you throw the--'

'The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

'--as far out to sea as you can--'

'Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

'Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly
about.

'Change lobsters again!' yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.

'Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the Mock
Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been
jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly
and quietly, and looked at Alice.

'It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

'Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

'Very much indeed,' said Alice.

'Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon.
'We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?'

'Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon. 'I've forgotten the words.'

So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and
then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their
forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly
and sadly:--

 '"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
 "There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.

 See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
 They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the dance?

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?

 "You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
 When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!"
 But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look askance--
 Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.

 Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
 Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

 '"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
 "There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
 The further off from England the nearer is to France--
 Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?"'

'Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said Alice, feeling
very glad that it was over at last: 'and I do so like that curious song
about the whiting!'

'Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, 'they--you've seen them,
of course?'

'Yes,' said Alice, 'I've often seen them at dinn--' she checked herself
hastily.

'I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, 'but if you've
seen them so often, of course you know what they're like.'

'I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully. 'They have their tails in
their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

'You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle: 'crumbs would all
wash off in the sea. But they HAVE their tails in their mouths; and the
reason is--' here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes.--'Tell her
about the reason and all that,' he said to the Gryphon.

'The reason is,' said the Gryphon, 'that they WOULD go with the lobsters
to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long
way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn't get
them out again. That's all.'

'Thank you,' said Alice, 'it's very interesting. I never knew so much
about a whiting before.'

'I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the Gryphon. 'Do you
know why it's called a whiting?'

'I never thought about it,' said Alice. 'Why?'

'IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very solemnly.

Alice was thoroughly puzzled. 'Does the boots and shoes!' she repeated
in a wondering tone.

'Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon. 'I mean, what
makes them so shiny?'

Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her
answer. 'They're done with blacking, I believe.'

'Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep voice,
'are done with a whiting. Now you know.'

'And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.

'Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather impatiently:
'any shrimp could have told you that.'

'If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were still running
on the song, 'I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep back, please: we
don't want YOU with us!"'

'They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle said: 'no
wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

'Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

'Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle: 'why, if a fish came to ME, and
told me he was going a journey, I should say "With what porpoise?"'

'Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

'I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And
the Gryphon added 'Come, let's hear some of YOUR adventures.'

'I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,' said
Alice a little timidly: 'but it's no use going back to yesterday,
because I was a different person then.'

'Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

'No, no! The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an impatient tone:
'explanations take such a dreadful time.'

So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first
saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first,
the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened
their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she gained courage as she went
on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about
her repeating 'YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the
words all coming different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath,
and said 'That's very curious.'

'It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

'It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. 'I
should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to
begin.' He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of
authority over Alice.

'Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said the
Gryphon.

'How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!'
thought Alice; 'I might as well be at school at once.' However, she
got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster
Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came
very queer indeed:--

  ''Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
  "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
  As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
  Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

       [later editions continued as follows
  When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
  And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
  But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
  His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

'That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,' said the
Gryphon.

'Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; 'but it sounds
uncommon nonsense.'

Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again.

'I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

'She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily. 'Go on with the next
verse.'

'But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted. 'How COULD he turn them
out with his nose, you know?'

'It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was dreadfully
puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject.

'Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently: 'it
begins "I passed by his garden."'

Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

  'I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
  How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

    [later editions continued as follows
  The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
  While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
  When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
  Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
  While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
  And concluded the banquet--]

'What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, 'if you don't explain it as you go on? It's by far the most
confusing thing I ever heard!'

'Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon: and Alice was
only too glad to do so.

'Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the Gryphon went
on. 'Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?'

'Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,' Alice
replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone,
'Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her "Turtle Soup," will you, old
fellow?'

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked
with sobs, to sing this:--

   'Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
   Waiting in a hot tureen!
   Who for such dainties would not stoop?
   Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
   Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
   Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
     Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

   'Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
   Game, or any other dish?
   Who would not give all else for two
   Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
   Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
   Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
     Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

'Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun
to repeat it, when a cry of 'The trial's beginning!' was heard in the
distance.

'Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried
off, without waiting for the end of the song.

'What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only
answered 'Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more faintly
came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:--

   'Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
     Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'




CHAPTER XI. Who Stole the Tarts?

The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they
arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts of little
birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was
standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard
him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand,
and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court
was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good,
that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them--'I wish they'd get the
trial done,' she thought, 'and hand round the refreshments!' But there
seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read
about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew
the name of nearly everything there. 'That's the judge,' she said to
herself, 'because of his great wig.'

The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the
wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did
not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming.

'And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, 'and those twelve creatures,'
(she was obliged to say 'creatures,' you see, because some of them were
animals, and some were birds,) 'I suppose they are the jurors.' She said
this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather proud of
it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her
age knew the meaning of it at all. However, 'jury-men' would have done
just as well.

The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. 'What are they
doing?' Alice whispered to the Gryphon. 'They can't have anything to put
down yet, before the trial's begun.'

'They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in reply, 'for
fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.'

'Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped
hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, 'Silence in the court!' and the
King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who
was talking.

Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
that all the jurors were writing down 'stupid things!' on their slates,
and she could even make out that one of them didn't know how to spell
'stupid,' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. 'A nice
muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice
could not stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and
very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly
that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out
at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was
obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was
of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

'Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then
unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

   'The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
      All on a summer day:
    The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
      And took them quite away!'

'Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

'Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted. 'There's a great
deal to come before that!'

'Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three
blasts on the trumpet, and called out, 'First witness!'

The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one
hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. 'I beg pardon, your
Majesty,' he began, 'for bringing these in: but I hadn't quite finished
my tea when I was sent for.'

'You ought to have finished,' said the King. 'When did you begin?'

The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the
court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. 'Fourteenth of March, I think it
was,' he said.

'Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

'Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

'Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

'Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

'It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

'Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made a
memorandum of the fact.

'I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation; 'I've none of
my own. I'm a hatter.'

Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter,
who turned pale and fidgeted.

'Give your evidence,' said the King; 'and don't be nervous, or I'll have
you executed on the spot.'

This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting
from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in
his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the
bread-and-butter.

Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to
grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave
the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as
long as there was room for her.

'I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was sitting
next to her. 'I can hardly breathe.'

'I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly: 'I'm growing.'

'You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

'Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly: 'you know you're growing
too.'

'Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse: 'not in that
ridiculous fashion.' And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the
other side of the court.

All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and,
just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers
of the court, 'Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!' on
which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

'Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, 'or I'll have you
executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

'I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a trembling voice,
'--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week or so--and what with the
bread-and-butter getting so thin--and the twinkling of the tea--'

'The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

'It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

'Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply. 'Do you
take me for a dunce? Go on!'

'I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, 'and most things twinkled after
that--only the March Hare said--'

'I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

'You did!' said the Hatter.

'I deny it!' said the March Hare.

'He denies it,' said the King: 'leave out that part.'

'Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on, looking
anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied
nothing, being fast asleep.

'After that,' continued the Hatter, 'I cut some more bread-and-butter--'

'But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

'That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

'You MUST remember,' remarked the King, 'or I'll have you executed.'

The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went
down on one knee. 'I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he began.

'You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by
the officers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just
explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied
up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig,
head first, and then sat upon it.)

'I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice. 'I've so often read
in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some attempts
at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the
court," and I never understood what it meant till now.'

'If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,' continued the
King.

'I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter: 'I'm on the floor, as it is.'

'Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

'Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice. 'Now we shall get
on better.'

'I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the
Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

'You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court,
without even waiting to put his shoes on.

'--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one of the
officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get
to the door.

'Call the next witness!' said the King.

The next witness was the Duchess's cook. She carried the pepper-box in
her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the
court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.

'Give your evidence,' said the King.

'Shan't,' said the cook.

The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice,
'Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

'Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy air, and,
after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were
nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, 'What are tarts made of?'

'Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

'Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

'Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out. 'Behead that Dormouse!
Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his
whiskers!'

For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse
turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had
disappeared.

'Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief. 'Call the next
witness.' And he added in an undertone to the Queen, 'Really, my dear,
YOU must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead
ache!'

Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very
curious to see what the next witness would be like, '--for they haven't
got much evidence YET,' she said to herself. Imagine her surprise, when
the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the
name 'Alice!'




CHAPTER XII. Alice's Evidence


'Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how
large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such
a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt,
upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there
they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish
she had accidentally upset the week before.

'Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and
began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for the accident of
the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of idea
that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box, or
they would die.

'The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave voice, 'until
all the jurymen are back in their proper places--ALL,' he repeated with
great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said do.

Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put
the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its
tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. She soon got
it out again, and put it right; 'not that it signifies much,' she said
to herself; 'I should think it would be QUITE as much use in the trial
one way up as the other.'

As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being
upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to
them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the
accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do
anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the
court.

'What do you know about this business?' the King said to Alice.

'Nothing,' said Alice.

'Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

'Nothing whatever,' said Alice.

'That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury. They were
just beginning to write this down on their slates, when the White Rabbit
interrupted: 'UNimportant, your Majesty means, of course,' he said in a
very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.

'UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and went on
to himself in an undertone,

'important--unimportant--unimportant--important--' as if he were trying
which word sounded best.

Some of the jury wrote it down 'important,' and some 'unimportant.'
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates;
'but it doesn't matter a bit,' she thought to herself.

At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in
his note-book, cackled out 'Silence!' and read out from his book, 'Rule
Forty-two. ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

Everybody looked at Alice.

'I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.

'You are,' said the King.

'Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.

'Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice: 'besides, that's not a
regular rule: you invented it just now.'

'It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.

'Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.

The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. 'Consider your
verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.

'There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said the White
Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; 'this paper has just been picked
up.'

'What's in it?' said the Queen.

'I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, 'but it seems to be a
letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

'It must have been that,' said the King, 'unless it was written to
nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

'Who is it directed to?' said one of the jurymen.

'It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; 'in fact, there's
nothing written on the OUTSIDE.' He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and
added 'It isn't a letter, after all: it's a set of verses.'

'Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of the jurymen.

'No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, 'and that's the queerest thing
about it.' (The jury all looked puzzled.)

'He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King. (The jury
all brightened up again.)

'Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, 'I didn't write it, and they
can't prove I did: there's no name signed at the end.'

'If you didn't sign it,' said the King, 'that only makes the matter
worse. You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd have signed your
name like an honest man.'

There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really
clever thing the King had said that day.

'That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

'It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice. 'Why, you don't even know
what they're about!'

'Read them,' said the King.

The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. 'Where shall I begin, please
your Majesty?' he asked.

'Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, 'and go on till you
come to the end: then stop.'

These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

   'They told me you had been to her,
    And mentioned me to him:
   She gave me a good character,
    But said I could not swim.

   He sent them word I had not gone
    (We know it to be true):
   If she should push the matter on,
    What would become of you?

   I gave her one, they gave him two,
    You gave us three or more;
   They all returned from him to you,
    Though they were mine before.

   If I or she should chance to be
    Involved in this affair,
   He trusts to you to set them free,
    Exactly as we were.

   My notion was that you had been
    (Before she had this fit)
   An obstacle that came between
    Him, and ourselves, and it.

   Don't let him know she liked them best,
    For this must ever be
   A secret, kept from all the rest,
    Between yourself and me.'

'That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,' said the
King, rubbing his hands; 'so now let the jury--'

'If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had grown so large
in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit afraid of interrupting
him,) 'I'll give him sixpence. _I_ don't believe there's an atom of
meaning in it.'

The jury all wrote down on their slates, 'SHE doesn't believe there's an
atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to explain the paper.

'If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, 'that saves a world of
trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any. And yet I don't know,'
he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them
with one eye; 'I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. "--SAID
I COULD NOT SWIM--" you can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the
Knave.

The Knave shook his head sadly. 'Do I look like it?' he said. (Which he
certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

'All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering over
the verses to himself: '"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's the jury, of
course--"I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why, that must be what he
did with the tarts, you know--'

'But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said Alice.

'Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts
on the table. 'Nothing can be clearer than THAT. Then again--"BEFORE SHE
HAD THIS FIT--" you never had fits, my dear, I think?' he said to the
Queen.

'Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard
as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his
slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily
began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as
it lasted.)

'Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round the court
with a smile. There was a dead silence.

'It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed,
'Let the jury consider their verdict,' the King said, for about the
twentieth time that day.

'No, no!' said the Queen. 'Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

'Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly. 'The idea of having the
sentence first!'

'Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

'I won't!' said Alice.

'Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody
moved.

'Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this
time.) 'You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon
her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and
tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her
head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead
leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face.

'Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; 'Why, what a long sleep you've
had!'

'Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told her
sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures
of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had
finished, her sister kissed her, and said, 'It WAS a curious dream,
dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it's getting late.' So
Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might,
what a wonderful dream it had been.

But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her
hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her
wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and
this was her dream:--

First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny
hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking
up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her voice, and see that
queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that
WOULD always get into her eyes--and still as she listened, or seemed to
listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures
of her little sister's dream.

The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by--the
frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool--she
could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends
shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen
ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution--once more the pig-baby
was sneezing on the Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed
around it--once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the
Lizard's slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock
Turtle.

So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all
would change to dull reality--the grass would be only rustling in the
wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds--the rattling
teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen's shrill
cries to the voice of the shepherd boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the
shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (she
knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing
of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers
would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would
keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her
childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and
make THEIR eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even
with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with
all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

Produced by David Edwards, Anne Storer and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from scans of public domain material
produced by Microsoft for their Live Search Books site.)






                         THE CANDY COUNTRY

                                BY

                         LOUISA M. ALCOTT


 AUTHOR OF "LITTLE WOMEN," "LITTLE MEN," "AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL,"
          "AUNT JO'S SCRAP-BAG," "LULU'S LIBRARY," ETC.


                           Illustrated


                             BOSTON
                   LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY




                      _Copyright, 1885,_
                      BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT

                      _Copyright, 1900,_
                     BY JOHN S. P. ALCOTT


                       University Press
            JOHN WILSON AND SON, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A.


              *       *       *       *       *




[Illustration: "Hollo, what do you want?" he asked, staring at her.
                PAGE 10.]


THE CANDY COUNTRY


"I shall take mamma's red sun umbrella, it is so warm, and none of the
children at school will have one like it," said Lily, one day, as she
went through the hall.

"The wind is very high; I'm afraid you'll be blown away if you carry
that big thing," called Nurse from the window, as the red umbrella went
bobbing down the garden walk with a small girl under it.

"I wish it would; I always wanted to go up in a balloon," answered Lily,
as she struggled out of the gate.

She got on very well till she came to the bridge and stopped to look
over the railing at the water running by so fast, and the turtles
sunning themselves on the rocks. Lily was fond of throwing stones at
them; it was so funny to watch them tumble, heels over head, splash into
the water. Now, when she saw three big fellows close by, she stooped for
a stone, and just at that minute a gale of wind nearly took the umbrella
out of her hand. She clutched it fast; and away she went like a
thistle-down, right up in the air, over river and hill, houses and
trees, faster and faster, till her head spun round, her breath was all
gone, and she had to let go. The dear red umbrella flew away like a
leaf; and Lily fell down, down, till she went crash into a tree which
grew in such a curious place that she forgot her fright as she sat
looking about her, wondering what part of the world it could be.

The tree looked as if made of glass or colored sugar; for she could see
through the red cherries, the green leaves, and the brown branches. An
agreeable smell met her nose; and she said at once, as any child would,
"I smell candy!" She picked a cherry and ate it. Oh, how good it
was!--all sugar and no stone. The next discovery was such a delightful
one that she nearly fell off her perch; for by touching her tongue here
and there, she found that the whole tree was made of candy. Think what
fun to sit and break off twigs of barley sugar, candied cherries, and
leaves that tasted like peppermint and sassafras!

Lily rocked and ate till she finished the top of the little tree;
then she climbed down and strolled along, making more surprising and
agreeable discoveries as she went.

What looked like snow under her feet was white sugar; the rocks were
lumps of chocolate, the flowers of all colors and tastes; and every sort
of fruit grew on these delightful trees. Little white houses soon
appeared; and here lived the dainty candy-people, all made of the best
sugar, and painted to look like real people. Dear little men and women,
looking as if they had stepped off of wedding cakes and bonbons, went
about in their gay sugar clothes, laughing and talking in the sweetest
voices. Bits of babies rocked in open-work cradles, and sugar boys and
girls played with sugar toys in the most natural way. Carriages rolled
along the jujube streets, drawn by the red and yellow barley horses we
all love so well; cows fed in the green fields, and sugar birds sang in
the trees.

Lily listened, and in a moment she understood what the song said,--

    "Sweet! Sweet!
     Come, come and eat,
     Dear little girls
     With yellow curls;
     For here you'll find
     Sweets to your mind.
     On every tree
     Sugar-plums you'll see;
     In every dell
     Grows the caramel.
     Over every wall
     Gum-drops fall;
     Molasses flows
     Where our river goes.
     Under your feet
     Lies sugar sweet;
     Over your head
     Grow almonds red.
     Our lily and rose
     Are not for the nose;
     Our flowers we pluck
     To eat or suck.
     And, oh! what bliss
     When two friends kiss,
     For they honey sip
     From lip to lip!
     And all you meet,
     In house or street,
     At work or play,
     Sweethearts are they.
     So, little dear,
     Pray feel no fear;
     Go where you will;
     Eat, eat your fill.
     Here is a feast
     From west to east;
     And you can say,
     Ere you go away,
     'At last I stand
     In dear Candy-land,
     And no more can stuff;
     For once I've enough.'
     Sweet! Sweet!
     Tweet! Tweet!
     Tweedle-dee!
     Tweedle-dee!"

"That is the most interesting song I ever heard," said Lily, clapping
her sticky hands and dancing along toward a fine palace of white cream
candy, with pillars of striped peppermint stick, and a roof of frosting
that made it look like the Milan Cathedral.

"I'll live here, and eat candy all day long, with no tiresome school or
patchwork to spoil my fun," said Lily.

So she ran up the chocolate steps into the pretty rooms, where all the
chairs and tables were of different colored candies, and the beds of
spun sugar. A fountain of lemonade supplied drink; and floors of
ice-cream that never melted kept people and things from sticking
together, as they would have done had it been warm.

For a long while Lily was quite happy, going about tasting so many
different kinds of sweeties, talking to the little people, who were very
amiable, and finding out curious things about them and their country.

The babies were made of plain sugar, but the grown people had different
flavors. The young ladies were flavored with violet, rose, and orange;
the gentlemen were apt to have cordials of some sort inside of them, as
she found when she ate one now and then slyly, and got her tongue bitten
by the hot, strong taste as a punishment. The old people tasted of
peppermint, clove, and such comfortable things, good for pain; but the
old maids had lemon, hoar-hound, flag-root, and all sorts of sour,
bitter things in them, and did not get eaten much. Lily soon learned to
know the characters of her new friends by a single taste, and some she
never touched but once. The dear babies melted in her mouth, and the
delicately flavored young ladies she was very fond of. Dr. Ginger was
called to her more than once when so much candy made her teeth ache, and
she found him a very hot-tempered little man; but he stopped the pain,
so she was glad to see him.

A lime-drop boy and a little pink checkerberry girl were her favorite
playmates; and they had fine times making mud-pies by scraping the
chocolate rocks and mixing this dust with honey from the wells near by.
These they could eat; and Lily thought this much better than throwing
away the pies, as she had to do at home. They had candy-pulls very
often, and made swings of long loops of molasses candy, and bird's-nests
with almond eggs, out of which came birds who sang sweetly. They played
foot-ball with big bull's-eyes, sailed in sugar boats on lakes of syrup,
fished in rivers of molasses, and rode the barley horses all over the
country.

Lily discovered that it never rained, but snowed white sugar. There was
no sun, as it would have been too hot; but a large yellow lozenge made
a nice moon, and red and white comfits were the stars.

The people all lived on sugar, and never quarrelled. No one was ill; and
if any got broken, as sometimes happened with such brittle creatures,
they just stuck the parts together and were all right again. The way
they grew old was to get thinner and thinner till there was danger of
their vanishing. Then the friends of the old person put him in a neat
coffin, and carried him to the great golden urn which stood in their
largest temple, always full of a certain fine syrup; and here he was
dipped and dipped till he was stout and strong again, and went home to
enjoy himself for a long time as good as new.

This was very interesting to Lily, and she went to many funerals. But
the weddings were better still; for the lovely white brides were so
sweet Lily longed to eat them. The feasts were delicious; and everybody
went in their best clothes, and danced at the ball till they got so warm
half-a-dozen would stick together and have to be taken to the ice-cream
room to cool off. Then the little pair would drive away in a fine
carriage with white horses to a new palace in some other part of the
country, and Lily would have another pleasant place to visit.

But by and by, when she had seen everything, and eaten so much sweet
stuff that at last she longed for plain bread and butter, she began to
get cross, as children always do when they live on candy; and the little
people wished she would go away, for they were afraid of her. No wonder,
when she would catch up a dear sugar baby and eat him, or break some
respectable old grandmamma all into bits because she reproved her for
naughty ways. Lily calmly sat down on the biggest church, crushing it
flat, and even tried to poke the moon out of the sky in a pet one day.
The king ordered her to go home; but she said, "I won't!" and bit his
head off, crown and all.

Such a wail went up at this awful deed that she ran away out of the
city, fearing some one would put poison in her candy, since she had no
other food.

"I suppose I shall get somewhere if I keep walking; and I can't starve,
though I hate the sight of this horrid stuff," she said to herself, as
she hurried over the mountains of Gibraltar Rock that divided the city
of Saccharissa from the great desert of brown sugar that lay beyond.

Lily marched bravely on for a long time, and saw at last a great smoke
in the sky, smelt a spicy smell, and felt a hot wind blowing toward her.

"I wonder if there are sugar savages here, roasting and eating some poor
traveller like me," she said, thinking of Robinson Crusoe and other
wanderers in strange lands.

She crept carefully along till she saw a settlement of little huts very
like mushrooms, for they were made of cookies set on lumps of the brown
sugar; and queer people, looking as if made of gingerbread, were working
very busily round several stoves which seemed to bake at a great rate.

"I'll creep nearer and see what sort of people they are before I show
myself," said Lily, going into a grove of spice-trees, and sitting down
on a stone which proved to be the plummy sort of cake we used to call
Brighton Rock.

Presently one of the tallest men came striding toward the trees with a
pan, evidently after spice; and before she could run, he saw Lily.

"Hollo, what do you want?" he asked, staring at her with his black
currant eyes, while he briskly picked the bark off a cinnamon-tree.

"I'm travelling, and would like to know what place this is, if you
please," answered Lily, very politely, being a little frightened.

"Cake-land. Where do you come from?" asked the gingerbread man, in a
crisp tone of voice.

"I was blown into the Candy country, and have been there a long time;
but I got tired of it, and ran away to find something better."

"Sensible child!" and the man smiled till Lily thought his cheeks would
crumble. "You'll get on better here with us Brownies than with the lazy
Bonbons, who never work and are all for show. They won't own us, though
we are all related through our grandparents Sugar and Molasses. We are
busy folks; so they turn up their noses and don't speak when we meet at
parties. Poor creatures, silly and sweet and unsubstantial! I pity 'em."

"Could I make you a visit? I'd like to see how you live, and what you
do. I'm sure it must be interesting," said Lily, picking herself up
after a tumble, having eaten nearly all the stone, she was so hungry.

"I know you will. Come on! I can talk while I work." And the funny
gingerbread man trotted off toward his kitchen, full of pans,
rolling-pins, and molasses jugs.

"Sit down. I shall be at leisure as soon as this batch is baked. There
are still some wise people down below who like gingerbread, and I have
my hands full," he said, dashing about, stirring, rolling out, and
slapping the brown dough into pans, which he whisked into the oven and
out again so fast that Lily knew there must be magic about it somewhere.

Every now and then he threw her a delicious cooky warm from the oven.
She liked the queer fellow, and presently began to talk, being very
curious about this country.

"What is your name, sir?"

"Ginger Snap."

Lily thought it a good one; for he was very quick, and she fancied he
could be short and sharp if he liked.

"Where does all this cake go to?" she asked, after watching the other
kitchens full of workers, who were all of different kinds of cake, and
each set of cooks made its own sort.

"I'll show you by and by," answered Snap, beginning to pile up the heaps
of gingerbread on a little car that ran along a track leading to some
unknown storeroom, Lily thought.

"Don't you get tired of doing this all the time?"

"Yes; but I want to be promoted, and I never shall be till I've done my
best, and won the prize here."

"Oh, tell me about it! What is the prize, and how are you promoted? Is
this a cooking-school?"

"Yes; the prize for best gingerbread is a cake of condensed yeast. That
puts a soul into me, and I begin to rise till I am able to go over the
hills yonder into the blessed land of bread, and be one of the happy
creatures who are always wholesome, always needed, and without which the
world below would be in a bad way."

"Bless me! that is the queerest thing I've heard yet. But I don't wonder
you want to go; I'm tired of sweets myself, and long for a good piece of
bread, though I used to want cake and candy at home."

"Ah, my dear, you'll learn a good deal here; and you are lucky not to
have got into the clutches of Giant Dyspepsia, who always gets people if
they eat too much of such rubbish and scorn wholesome bread. I leave my
ginger behind when I go, and get white and round and beautiful, as you
will see. The Gingerbread family have never been as foolish as some of
the other cakes. Wedding is the worst; such extravagance in the way of
wine and spice and fruit I never saw, and such a mess to eat when it's
done! I don't wonder people get sick; serves 'em right." And Snap flung
down a pan with such a bang that it made Lily jump.

"Sponge cake isn't bad, is it? Mamma lets me eat it, but I like frosted
pound better," she said, looking over to the next kitchen, where piles
of that sort of cake were being iced.

"Poor stuff. No substance. Ladies' fingers will do for babies, but pound
has too much butter ever to be healthy. Let it alone, and eat cookies or
seed-cakes, my dear. Now, come along; I'm ready." And Snap trundled away
his car-load at a great pace.

Lily ran behind to pick up whatever fell, and looked about her as she
went, for this was certainly a very queer country. Lakes of eggs all
beaten up, and hot springs of saleratus foamed here and there ready for
use. The earth was brown sugar or ground spice; and the only fruits were
raisins, dried currants, citron, and lemon peel. It was a very busy
place; for every one cooked all the time, and never failed and never
seemed tired, though they got so hot that they only wore sheets of paper
for clothes. There were piles of it to put over the cake, so that it
shouldn't burn; and they made cook's white caps and aprons of it, and
looked very nice. A large clock made of a flat pancake, with cloves to
mark the hours and two toothpicks for hands, showed them how long to
bake things; and in one place an ice wall was built round a lake of
butter, which they cut in lumps as they wanted it.

"Here we are. Now, stand away while I pitch 'em down," said Snap,
stopping at last before a hole in the ground where a dumb-waiter hung
ready, with a name over it.

There were many holes all round, and many waiters, each with its name;
and Lily was amazed when she read "Weber," "Copeland," "Dooling," and
others, which she knew very well.

Over Snap's place was the name "Newmarch;" and Lily said, "Why, that's
where mamma gets her hard gingerbread, and Weber's is where we go for
ice-cream. Do _you_ make cake for them?"

"Yes, but no one knows it. It's one of the secrets of the trade. We
cook for all the confectioners, and people think the good things come
out of the cellars under their saloons. Good joke, isn't it?" And Snap
laughed till a crack came in his neck and made him cough.

Lily was so surprised she sat down on a warm queen's cake that happened
to be near, and watched Snap send down load after load of gingerbread to
be eaten by children, who would have liked it much better if they had
only known where it came from, as she did.

As she sat, the clatter of many spoons, the smell of many dinners, and
the sound of many voices calling, "One vanilla, two strawberries, and a
Charlotte Russe," "Three stews, cup coffee, dry toast," "Roast chicken
and apple without," came up the next hole, which was marked "Copeland."

"Dear me! it seems as if I was there," said Lily, longing to hop down,
but afraid of the bump at the other end.

"I'm done. Come along, I'll ride you back," called Snap, tossing the
last cooky after the dumb-waiter as it went slowly out of sight with its
spicy load.

"I wish you'd teach me to cook. It looks great fun, and mamma wants me
to learn; only our cook hates to have me mess round, and is so cross
that I don't like to try at home," said Lily, as she went trundling
back.

"Better wait till you get to Bread-land, and learn to make that. It's a
great art, and worth knowing. Don't waste your time on cake, though
plain gingerbread isn't bad to have in the house. I'll teach you that in
a jiffy, if the clock doesn't strike my hour too soon," answered Snap,
helping her down.

"What hour?"

"Why, of my freedom. I never know when I've done my task till I'm called
by the chimes and go to get my soul," said Snap, turning his currant
eyes anxiously to the clock.

"I hope you _will_ have time." And Lily fell to work with all her
might, after Snap had put on her a paper apron and a cap like his.

It was not hard; for when she was going to make a mistake a spark flew
out of the fire and burnt her in time to remind her to look at the
receipt, which was a sheet of gingerbread in a frame of pie-crust hung
up before her, with the directions written while it was soft and baked
in. The third sheet she made came out of the oven spicy, light, and
brown; and Snap, giving it one poke, said, "That's all right. Now you
know. Here's your reward."

He handed her a receipt-book made of thin sheets of sugar-gingerbread
held together by a gelatine binding, with her name stamped on the back,
and each leaf crimped with a cake-cutter in the most elegant manner.

Lily was charmed with it, but had no time to read all it contained; for
just then the clock began to strike, and a chime of bells to ring,--

    "Gingerbread,
     Go to the head.
     Your task is done;
     A soul is won.
     Take it and go
     Where muffins grow,
     Where sweet loaves rise
     To the very skies,
     And biscuits fair
     Perfume the air.
     Away, away!
     Make no delay;
     In the sea of flour
     Plunge this hour.
     Safe in your breast
     Let the yeast-cake rest,
     Till you rise in joy,
     A white bread boy!"

"Ha, ha! I'm free! I'm free!" cried Snap, catching up the silver-covered
square that seemed to fall from heaven; and running to a great white
sea of flour, he went in head first, holding the yeast-cake clasped to
his breast as if his life depended on it.

Lily watched breathlessly, while a curious working and bubbling went on,
as if Snap was tumbling about down there, like a small earthquake. The
other cake-folk stood round the shore with her; for it was a great
event, and all were glad that the dear fellow was promoted so soon.
Suddenly a cry was heard, and up rose a beautiful white figure on the
farther side of the sea. It moved its hand, as if saying "Good-by," and
ran over the hills so fast they had only time to see how plump and fair
he was, with a little knob on the top of his head like a crown.

"He's gone to the happy land, and we shall miss him; but we'll follow
his example and soon find him again," said a gentle Sponge Cake, with a
sigh, as all went back to their work; while Lily hurried after Snap,
eager to see the new country, which was the best of all.

A delicious odor of fresh bread blew up from the valley as she stood on
the hill-top and looked down on the peaceful scene below. Fields of
yellow grain waved in the breeze; hop-vines grew from tree to tree, and
many windmills whirled their white sails as they ground the different
grains into fresh, sweet meal, for the loaves of bread that built the
houses like bricks and paved the streets, or in many shapes formed the
people, furniture, and animals. A river of milk flowed through the
peaceful land, and fountains of yeast rose and fell with a pleasant foam
and fizz. The ground was a mixture of many meals, and the paths were
golden Indian, which gave a very gay look to the scene. Buckwheat
flowers bloomed on their rosy stems, and tall corn-stalks rustled their
leaves in the warm air that came from the ovens hidden in the hillsides;
for bread needs a slow fire, and an obliging volcano did the baking
here.

"What a lovely place!" cried Lily, feeling the charm of the homelike
landscape, in spite of the funny plump people moving about.

Two of these figures came running to meet her as she slowly walked down
the yellow path from the hill. One was a golden boy, with a beaming
face; the other a little girl in a shiny brown cloak, who looked as if
she would taste very nice. They each put a warm hand into Lily's, and
the boy said,--

"We are glad to see you. Muffin told us you were coming."

"Thank you. Who is Muffin?" asked Lily, feeling as if she had seen both
these little people before, and liked them.

"He was Ginger Snap once, but he's a Muffin now. We begin in that way,
and work up to the perfect loaf by degrees. My name is Johnny Cake, and
she's Sally Lunn. You know us; so come on and have a race."

Lily burst out laughing at the idea of playing with these old friends of
hers; and all three ran away as fast as they could tear, down the hill,
over a bridge, into the middle of the village, where they stopped,
panting, and sat down on some very soft rolls to rest.

"What do you all do _here_?" asked Lily, when she got her breath again.

"We farm, we study, we bake, we brew, and are as merry as grigs all day
long. It's school-time now, and we must go; will you come?" said Sally,
jumping up as if she liked it.

"Our schools are not like yours; we only study two things,--grain and
yeast. I think you'll like it. We have yeast to-day, and the experiments
are very jolly," added Johnny, trotting off to a tall brown tower of
rye and Indian bread, where the school was kept.

Lily never liked to go to school, but she was ashamed to own it; so she
went along with Sally, and was so amused with all she saw that she was
glad she came. The brown loaf was hollow, and had no roof; and when she
asked why they used a ruin, Sally told her to wait and see why they
chose strong walls and plenty of room overhead. All round was a circle
of very small biscuits like cushions, and on these the Bread-children
sat. A square loaf in the middle was the teacher's desk, and on it lay
an ear of wheat, with several bottles of yeast well corked up. The
teacher was a pleasant, plump lady from Vienna, very wise, and so famous
for her good bread that she was a Professor of Grainology.

When all were seated, she began with the wheat ear, and told them all
about it in such an interesting way that Lily felt as if she had never
known anything about the bread she ate before. The experiments with the
yeast were quite exciting,--for Fräulein Pretzel showed them how it
would work till it blew the cork out, and go fizzing up to the sky if it
was kept too long; how it would turn sour or flat, and spoil the bread
if care was not taken to use it just at the right moment; and how too
much would cause the loaf to rise till there was no substance to it.

The children were very bright; for they were fed on the best kinds of
oatmeal and Graham bread, with very little white bread or hot cakes to
spoil their young stomachs. Hearty, happy boys and girls they were, and
their yeasty souls were very lively in them; for they danced and sang,
and seemed as bright and gay as if acidity, heaviness, and mould were
quite unknown.

Lily was very happy with them, and when school was done went home with
Sally and ate the best bread and milk for dinner that she ever tasted.
In the afternoon Johnny took her to the cornfield, and showed her how
they kept the growing ears free from mildew and worms. Then she went to
the bakehouse; and here she found her old friend Muffin hard at work
making Parker House rolls, for he was such a good cook he was set to
work at once on the lighter kinds of bread.

"Well, isn't this better than Candy-land or Saccharissa?" he asked, as
he rolled and folded his bits of dough with a dab of butter tucked
inside.

"Ever so much!" cried Lily. "I feel better already, and mean to learn
all I can. Mamma will be so pleased if I can make good bread when I go
home. She is rather old-fashioned, and likes me to be a nice
housekeeper. I didn't think bread interesting then, but I do now; and
Johnny's mother is going to teach me to make Indian cakes to-morrow."

"Glad to hear it. Learn all you can, and tell other people how to make
healthy bodies and happy souls by eating good plain food. Not like this,
though these rolls are better than cake. I have to work my way up to the
perfect loaf, you know; and then, oh, then, I'm a happy thing."

"What happens then? Do you go on to some other wonderful place?" asked
Lily, as Muffin paused with a smile on his face.

"Yes; I am eaten by some wise, good human being, and become a part of
him or her. That is immortality and heaven; for I may nourish a poet and
help him sing, or feed a good woman who makes the world better for being
in it, or be crumbed into the golden porringer of a baby prince who is
to rule a kingdom. Isn't that a noble way to live, and an end worth
working for?" asked Muffin, in a tone that made Lily feel as if some
sort of fine yeast had got into her, and was setting her brain to work
with new thoughts.

"Yes, it is. I suppose all common things are made for that purpose, if
we only knew it; and people should be glad to do anything to help the
world along, even making good bread in a kitchen," answered Lily, in a
sober way that showed that her little mind was already digesting the new
food it had got.

She stayed in Bread-land a long time, and enjoyed and learned a great
deal that she never forgot. But at last, when she had made the perfect
loaf, she wanted to go home, that her mother might see and taste it.

"I've put a good deal of myself into it, and I'd love to think I had
given her strength or pleasure by my work," she said, as she and Sally
stood looking at the handsome loaf.

"You can go whenever you like; just take the bread in your hands and
wish three times, and you'll be wherever you say. I'm sorry to have you
go, but I don't wonder you want to see your mother. Don't forget what
you have learned, and you will always be glad you came to us," said
Sally, kissing her good-by.

"Where is Muffin? I can't go without seeing him, my dear old friend,"
answered Lily, looking round for him.

"He is here," said Sally, touching the loaf. "He was ready to go, and
chose to pass into your bread rather than any other, for he said he
loved you and would be glad to help feed so good a little girl."

"How kind of him! I must be careful to grow wise and excellent, else he
will be disappointed and have died in vain," said Lily, touched by his
devotion.

Then, bidding them all farewell, she hugged her loaf close, wished three
times to be in her own home, and like a flash she was there.

Whether her friends believed the wonderful tale of her adventures I
cannot tell; but I know that she was a nice little housekeeper from that
day, and made such good bread that other girls came to learn of her. She
also grew from a sickly, fretful child into a fine, strong woman,
because she ate very little cake and candy, except at Christmas time,
when the oldest and the wisest love to make a short visit to
Candy-land.


       *       *       *       *       *




[Illustration: Poor Billy dangling from a bough, high above the ground.
               PAGE 43.]


HOW THEY RAN AWAY


Two little boys sat on the fence whittling arrows one fine day. Said one
little boy to the other little boy,--

"Let's do something jolly."

"All right. What will we do?"

"Run off to the woods and be hunters."

"What can we hunt?"

"Bears and foxes."

"Mullin says there ain't any round here."

"Well, we can shoot squirrels and snare woodchucks."

"Haven't got any guns and trap."

"We've got our bows, and I found an old trap behind the barn."

"What will we eat?"

"Here's our lunch; and when that's gone we can roast the squirrels and
cook the fish on a stick. I know how."

"Where will you get the fire?"

"Got matches in my pocket."

"I've got a lot of things we could use. Let's see."

And as if satisfied at last, cautious Billy displayed his treasures,
while bold Tommy did the same.

Besides the two knives there were strings, nails, matches, a piece of
putty, fish-hooks, and two very dirty handkerchiefs.

"There, sir, that's a first-rate fit-out for hunters; and with the jolly
basket of lunch Mrs. Mullin gave us, we can get on tip-top for two or
three days," said Tommy, eager to be off.

"Where shall we sleep?" asked Billy, who liked to be comfortable both
night and day.

"Oh, up in trees or on beds of leaves, like the fellows in our books. If
you are afraid, stay at home; I'm going to have no end of a good time."
And Tommy crammed the things back into his pockets as if there were no
time to lose.

"Pooh! I ain't afraid. Come on!" And jumping down Billy caught up his
rod, rather ashamed of his many questions.

No one was looking at them, and they might have walked quietly off; but
that the "running away" might be all right, both raced down the road,
tumbled over a wall, and dashed into the woods as if a whole tribe of
wild Indians were after them.

"Do you know the way?" panted Billy, when at last they stopped for
breath.

"Yes, it winds right up the mountain; but we'd better not keep to it, or
some one will see us and take us back. We are going to be _real_ hunters
and have adventures; so we must get lost, and find our way by the sun
and the stars," answered Tommy, who had read so many Boys' Books his
little head was a jumble of Texan Rangers, African Explorers, and
Buffalo Bills; and he burned to outdo them all.

"What will our mothers say if we really get lost?" asked Billy, always
ready with a question.

"Mine won't fuss. She lets me do what I like."

That was true; for Tommy's poor mamma was tired of trying to keep the
lively little fellow in order, and had got used to seeing him come out
of all his scrapes without much harm.

"Mine will be scared; she's always afraid I'm going to get hurt, so I'm
careful. But I guess I'll risk it, and have some fun to tell about when
we go home," said Billy, trudging after Captain Tommy, who always took
the lead.

These eleven-year-old boys were staying with their mothers at a
farm-house up among the mountains; and having got tired of the tame
bears, the big barn, the trout brook, the thirty colts at pasture, and
the society of the few little girls and younger boys at the hotel near
by, these fine fellows longed to break loose and "rough it in the bush,"
as the hunters did in their favorite stories.

Away they went, deeper and deeper into the great forest that covered the
side of the mountain. A pleasant place that August day; for it was cool
and green, with many brooks splashing over the rocks, or lying in brown
pools under the ferns. Squirrels chattered and raced in the tall pines;
now and then a gray rabbit skipped out of sight among the brakes, or a
strange bird flew by. Here and there blackberries grew in the open
places, sassafras bushes were plentiful, and black-birch bark was ready
for chewing.

"Don't you call this nice?" asked Tommy, pausing at last in a little
dell where a noisy brook came tumbling down the mountain side, and the
pines sung overhead.

"Yes; but I'm awful hungry. Let's rest and eat our lunch," said Billy,
sitting down on a cushion of moss.

"You always want to be stuffing and resting," answered sturdy Tommy, who
liked to be moving all the time.

He took the fishing-basket, which hung over his shoulder by a strap, and
opened it carefully; for good Mrs. Mullin had packed a nice lunch of
bread and butter, cake and peaches, with a bottle of milk, and two large
pickles slipped in on the sly to please the boys.

Tommy's face grew very sober as he looked in, for all he saw was a box
of worms for bait and an old jacket.

"By George! we've got the wrong basket. This is Mullin's, and he's gone
off with our prog. Won't he be mad?"

"Not as mad as I am. Why didn't you look? You are always in such a hurry
to start. What _shall_ we do now without anything to eat?" whined Billy;
for losing his lunch was a dreadful blow to him.

"We shall have to catch some fish and eat blackberries. Which will you
do, old cry-baby?" said Tommy, laughing at the other boy's dismal face.

"I'll fish; I'm so tired I can't go scratching round after berries. I
don't love 'em either." And Billy began to fix his line and bait his
hook.

"Lucky we got the worms; you can eat 'em if you can't wait for fish,"
said Tommy, bustling about to empty the basket and pile up their few
possessions in a heap. "There's a quiet pool below here, you go and fish
there. I'll pick the berries, and then show you how to get dinner in the
woods. This is our camp; so fly round and do your best."

Then Tommy ran off to a place near by where he had seen the berries,
while Billy found a comfortable nook by the pool, and sat scowling at
the water so crossly, it was a wonder any trout came to his hook. But
the fat worms tempted several small ones, and he cheered up at the
prospect of food. Tommy whistled while he picked, and in half an hour
came back with two quarts of nice berries and an armful of dry sticks
for the fire.

"We'll have a jolly dinner, after all," he said, as the flames went
crackling up, and the dry leaves made a pleasant smell.

"Got four, but don't see how we'll ever cook 'em; no frying-pan,"
grumbled Billy, throwing down the four little trout, which he had half
cleaned.

"Don't want any. Broil 'em on the coals, or toast 'em on a forked stick.
I'll show you how," said cheerful Tommy, whittling away, and feeding his
fire as much like a real hunter as a small boy could be.

While he worked, Billy ate berries and sighed for bread and butter. At
last, after much trouble, two of the trout were half cooked and eagerly
eaten by the hungry boys. But they were very different from the nice
brown ones Mrs. Mullin gave them; for in spite of Tommy's struggles they
would fall in the ashes, and there was no salt to eat with them. By the
time the last were toasted, the young hunters were so hungry they could
have eaten anything, and not a berry was left.

"I set the trap down there, for I saw a hole among the vines, and I
shouldn't wonder if we got a rabbit or something," said Tommy, when the
last bone was polished. "You go and catch some more fish, and I'll see
if I have caught any old chap as he went home to dinner."

Off ran Tommy; and the other boy went slowly back to the brook, wishing
with all his might he was at home eating sweet corn and berry pie.

The trout had evidently gone to their dinners, for not one bite did poor
Billy get; and he was just falling asleep when a loud shout gave him
such a fright that he tumbled into the brook up to his knees.

"I've got him! Come and see! He's a bouncer," roared Tommy, from the
berry bushes some way off.

Billy scrambled out, and went as fast as his wet boots would let him, to
see what the prize was. He found Tommy dancing wildly round a fat gray
animal, who was fighting to get his paws out of the trap, and making a
queer noise as he struggled about.

"What is it?" asked Billy, getting behind a tree as fast as possible;
for the thing looked fierce, and he was very timid.

"A raccoon, I guess, or a big woodchuck. Won't his fur make a fine cap?
I guess the other fellows will wish they'd come with us," said Tommy,
prancing to and fro, without the least idea what to do with the
creature.

"He'll bite. We'd better run away and wait till he's dead," said Billy.

"Wish he'd got his head in, then I could carry him off; but he does look
savage, so we'll have to leave him awhile, and get him when we come
back. But he's a real beauty." And Tommy looked proudly at the bunch of
gray fur scuffling in the sand.

"Can we ever eat him?" asked hungry Billy, ready for a fried crocodile
if he could get it.

"If he's a raccoon, we can; but I don't know about woodchucks. The
fellows in my books don't seem to have caught any. He's nice and fat; we
might try him when he's dead," said Tommy, who cared more for the skin
to show than the best meal ever cooked.

The sound of a gun echoing through the wood gave Tommy a good idea,--

"Let's find the man and get him to shoot this chap; then we needn't
wait, but skin him right away, and eat him too."

Off they went to the camp; and catching up their things, the two hunters
hurried away in the direction of the sound, feeling glad to know that
some one was near them, for two or three hours of wood life made them a
little homesick.

They ran and scrambled, and listened and called; but not until they had
gone a long way up the mountain did they find the man, resting in an old
hut left by the lumbermen. The remains of his dinner were spread on the
floor, and he lay smoking, and reading a newspaper, while his dog dozed
at his feet, close to a well-filled game-bag.

He looked surprised when two dirty, wet little boys suddenly appeared
before him,--one grinning cheerfully, the other looking very dismal and
scared as the dog growled and glared at them as if they were two
rabbits.

"Hollo!" said the man.

"Hollo!" answered Tommy.

"Who are you?" asked the man.

"Hunters," said Tommy.

"Had good luck?" And the man laughed.

"First-rate. Got a raccoon in our trap, and we want you to come and
shoot him," answered Tommy, proudly.

"Sure?" said the man, looking interested as well as amused.

"No; but I think so."

"What's he like?"

Tommy described him, and was much disappointed when the man lay down
again, saying, with another laugh,--

"It's a woodchuck; he's no good."

"But I want the skin."

"Then don't shoot him, let him die; that's better for the skin," said
the man, who was tired and didn't want to stop for such poor game.

All this time Billy had been staring hard at the sandwiches and bread
and cheese on the floor, and sniffing at them, as the dog sniffed at
him.

"Want some grub?" asked the man, seeing the hungry look.

"I just do! We left our lunch, and I've only had two little trout and
some old berries since breakfast," answered Billy, with tears in his
eyes and a hand on his stomach.

"Eat away then; I'm done, and don't want the stuff." And the man took up
his paper as if glad to be let alone.

It was lucky that the dog had been fed, for in ten minutes nothing was
left but the napkin; and the boys sat picking up the crumbs, much
refreshed, but ready for more.

"Better be going home, my lads; it's pretty cold on the mountain after
sunset, and you are a long way from town," said the man, who had peeped
at them over his paper now and then, and saw, in spite of the dirt and
rips, that they were not farmer boys.

"We don't live in town; we are at Mullin's, in the valley. No hurry; we
know the way, and we want to have some sport first. You seem to have
done well," answered Tommy, looking enviously from the gun to the
game-bag, out of which hung a rabbit's head and a squirrel's tail.

"Pretty fair; but I want a shot at the bear. People tell me there is one
up here, and I'm after him; for he kills the sheep, and might hurt some
of the young folks round here," said the man, loading his gun with a
very sober air; for he wanted to get rid of the boys and send them home.

Billy looked alarmed; but Tommy's brown face beamed with joy as he said
eagerly,--

"I hope you'll get him. I'd rather shoot a bear than any other animal
but a lion. We don't have those here, and bears are scarce. Mullin said
he hadn't heard of one for a long time; so this must be a young one, for
they killed the big one two years ago."

That was true, and the man knew it. He did not really expect or want to
meet a bear, but thought the idea of one would send the little fellows
home at once. Finding one of them was unscared, he laughed, and said
with a nod to Tommy,--

"If I had time I'd take _you_ along, and show you how to hunt; but this
fat friend of yours couldn't rough it with us, and we can't leave him
alone; so go ahead your own way. Only I wouldn't climb any higher, for
among the rocks you are sure to get hurt or lost."

"Oh, I say, let's go! Such fun, Billy! I know you'll like it. A real gun
and dog and hunter! Come on, and don't be a molly-coddle," cried Tommy,
wild to go.

"I won't! I'm tired, and I'm going home; you can go after your old bears
if you want to. I don't think much of hunting anyway, and wish I hadn't
come," growled Billy, very cross at being left out, yet with no desire
to scramble any more.

"Can't stop. Good-by. Get along home, and some day I'll come and take
you out with me, little Leatherstocking," said the man, striding off
with the dear gun and dog and bag, leaving Billy to wonder what he meant
by that queer name, and Tommy to console himself with the promise made
him.

"Let's go and see how old Chucky gets on," he said good-naturedly, when
the man vanished.

"Not till I'm rested. I can get a good nap on this pile of hay; then
we'll go home before it's late," answered lazy Billy, settling himself
on the rough bed the lumbermen had used.

"I just wish I had a boy with some go in him; you ain't much better than
a girl," sighed Tommy, walking off to a pine-tree where some squirrels
seemed to be having a party, they chattered and raced up and down at
such a rate.

He tried his bow and shot all his arrows many times in vain, for the
lively creatures gave him no chance. He had better luck with a brown
bird who sat in a bush and was hit full in the breast with the sharpest
arrow. The poor thing fluttered and fell, and its blood wet the green
leaves as it lay dying on the grass. Tommy was much pleased at first;
but as he stood watching its bright eye grow dim and its pretty brown
wings stop fluttering, he felt sorry that its happy little life was so
cruelly ended, and ashamed that his thoughtless fun had given so much
pain.

"I'll never shoot another bird except hawks after chickens, and I won't
brag about this one. It was so tame, and trusted me, I was very mean to
kill it."

As he thought this, Tommy smoothed the ruffled feathers of the dead
thrush, and, making a little grave under the pine, buried it wrapped in
green leaves, and left it there where its mate could sing over it, and
no rude hands disturb its rest.

"I'll tell mamma and she will understand; but I _won't_ tell Billy. He
is such a greedy old chap he'll say I ought to have kept the poor bird
to eat," thought Tommy, as he went back to the hut, and sat there,
restringing his bow, till Billy woke up, much more amiable for his
sleep.

They tried to find the woodchuck, but lost their way, and wandered
deeper into the great forest till they came to a rocky place and could
go no farther. They climbed up and tumbled down, turned back and went
round, looked at the sun and knew it was late, chewed sassafras bark
and checkerberry leaves for supper, and grew more and more worried and
tired as hour after hour went by and they saw no end to woods and rocks.
Once or twice they heard the hunter's gun far away, and called and tried
to find him.

Tommy scolded Billy for not going with the man, who knew his way and was
probably safe in the valley when the last faint shot came up to them.
Billy cried, and reproached Tommy for proposing to run away; and both
felt very homesick for their mothers and their good safe beds at Farmer
Mullin's.

The sun set, and found them in a dreary place full of rocks and blasted
trees half-way up the mountain. They were so tired they could hardly
walk, and longed to lie down anywhere to sleep; but, remembering the
hunter's story of the bear, they were afraid to do it, till Tommy
suggested climbing a tree, after making a fire at the foot of it to
scare away the bear, lest he climb too and get them.

But, alas! the matches were left in their first camp; so they decided to
take turns to sleep and watch, since it was plain that they must spend
the night there. Billy went up first, and creeping into a good notch of
the bare tree tried to sleep, while brave Tommy, armed with a big
stick, marched to and fro below. Every few minutes a trembling voice
would call from above, "Is anything coming?" and an anxious voice would
answer from below, "Not yet. Hurry up and go to sleep! I want my turn."

At last Billy began to snore, and then Tommy felt so lonely he couldn't
bear it; so he climbed to a lower branch, and sat nodding and trying to
keep watch, till he too fell fast asleep, and the early moon saw the
poor boys roosting there like two little owls.

A loud cry, a scrambling overhead, and then a great shaking and howling
waked Tommy so suddenly that he lost his wits for a moment and did not
know where he was.

"The bear! the bear! don't let him get me! Tommy, Tommy, come and make
him let go," cried Billy, filling the quiet night with dismal howls.

Tommy looked up, expecting to behold a large bear eating his unhappy
friend; but the moonlight showed him nothing but poor Billy dangling
from a bough, high above the ground, caught by his belt when he fell. He
had been dreaming of bears, and rolled off his perch; so there he hung,
kicking and wailing, half awake, and so scared it was long before Tommy
could make him believe that he was quite safe.

How to get him down was the next question. The branch was not strong
enough to bear Tommy, though he climbed up and tried to unhook poor
Billy. The belt was firmly twisted at the back, and Billy could not
reach to undo it, nor could he get his legs round the branch to pull
himself up. There seemed no way but to unbuckle the belt and drop. That
he was afraid to try; for the ground was hard, and the fall a high one.
Fortunately both belt and buckle were strong; so he hung safely, though
very uncomfortably, while Tommy racked his boyish brain to find a way to
help him.

Billy had just declared that he should be cut in two very soon if
something was not done for him, and Tommy was in despair, when they
thought they heard a far-off shout, and both answered it till their
throats were nearly split with screaming.

"I seem to see a light moving round down that way," cried Billy from his
hook, pointing toward the valley.

"They are looking for us, but they won't hear us. I'll run and holler
louder, and bring 'em up here," answered Tommy, glad to do anything
that would put an end to this dreadful state of things.

"Don't leave me! I may fall and be killed! The bear might come! Don't
go! don't go!" wailed Billy, longing to drop, but afraid.

"I won't go far, and I'll come back as quick as I can. You are safe up
there. Hold on, and we'll soon get you down," answered Tommy, rushing
away helter-skelter, never minding where he went, and too much excited
to care for any damage.

The moon was bright on the blasted trees; but when he came down among
the green pines, it grew dark, and he often stumbled and fell. Never
minding bumps and bruises, he scrambled over rocks, leaped fallen
trunks, floundered through brooks, and climbed down steep places, till,
with a reckless jump, he went heels over head into a deep hole, and lay
there for a moment stunned by the fall. It was an old bear-trap, long
unused, and fortunately well carpeted with dead leaves, or poor Tommy
would have broken his bones.

When he came to himself he was so used up that he lay still for some
time in a sort of daze, too tired to know or care about anything, only
dimly conscious that somebody was lost in a tree or a well, and that,
on the whole, running away was not all fun.

By and by the sound of a gun roused him; and remembering poor Billy, he
tried to get out of the pit,--for the moon showed him where he was. But
it was too deep, and he was too stiff with weariness and the fall to be
very nimble. So he shouted, and whistled, and raged about very like a
little bear caught in the pit.

It is very difficult to find a lost person on these great mountains, and
many wander for hours not far from help, bewildered by the thick woods,
the deep ravines, and precipices which shut them in. Some have lost
their lives; and as Tommy lay on the leaves used up by his various
struggles, he thought of all the stories he had lately heard at the
farm, and began to wonder how it would feel to starve to death down
there, and to wish poor Billy could come to share his prison, that they
might die together, like the Babes in the Wood, or better still the Boy
Scouts lost on the prairies in that thrilling story, "Bill Boomerang,
the Wild Hunter of the West."

"I guess mother is worried this time, because I never stayed out all
night before, and I never will again without leave. It's rather good
fun, though, if they only find me. I ain't afraid, and it isn't very
cold. I always wanted to sleep out, and now I'm doing it. Wish poor
Billy was safely down and in this good bed with me. Won't he be scared
all alone there? Maybe the belt will break and he get hurt bumping down.
Sorry now I left him, he's such a 'fraid-cat. There's the gun again!
Guess it's that man after us. Hi! hollo! Here I am! Whoop! Hurrah! Hi!
hi! hi!"

Tommy's meditations ended in a series of yells as loud as his shrill
little voice could make them, and he thought some one answered. But it
must have been an echo, for no one came; and after another rampage round
his prison, the poor boy nestled down among the leaves, and went fast
asleep because there was nothing else to do.

So there they were, the two young hunters, lost at midnight on the
mountain,--one hanging like an apple on the old tree, and the other
sound asleep in a bear-pit. Their distracted mothers meantime were
weeping and wringing their hands at the farm, while all the men in
the neighborhood were out looking for the lost boys. The hunter on his
return to the hotel had reported meeting the runaways and his effort to
send them home in good season; so people knew where to look, and, led
by the man and dog, up the mountain went Mr. Mullin with his troop. It
was a mild night, and the moon shone high and clear; so the hunt was,
on the whole, rather easy and pleasant at first, and lanterns flashed
through the dark forest like fireflies, the lonely cliffs seemed alive
with men, and voices echoed in places where usually only the brooks
babbled and the hawks screamed. But as time went on, and no sign of the
boys appeared, the men grew anxious, and began to fear some serious harm
had come to the runaways.

"I can't go home without them little shavers no way, 'specially Tommy,"
said Mr. Mullin, as they stopped to rest after a hard climb through the
blasted grove. "He's a boy after my own heart, spry as a chipmunk, smart
as a young cockerel, and as full of mischief as a monkey. He ain't
afraid of anything, and I shouldn't be a mite surprised to find him
enjoyin' himself first-rate, and as cool as a coocumber."

"The fat boy won't take it so easily, I fancy. If it hadn't been for him
I'd have kept the lively fellow with me, and shown him how to hunt.
Sorry now I didn't take them both home," said the man with the gun,
seeing his mistake too late, as people often do.

"Maybe they've fell down a precipice and got killed, like Moses Warner,
when he was lost," suggested a tall fellow, who had shouted himself
hoarse.

"Hush up, and come on! The dog is barkin' yonder, and he may have found
'em," said the farmer, hurrying toward the place where the hound was
baying at something in a tree.

It was poor Billy, hanging there still, half unconscious with weariness
and fear. The belt had slipped up under his arms, so he could breathe
easily; and there he was, looking like a queer sort of cone on the
blasted pine.

"Wal, I never!" exclaimed the farmer, as the tall lad climbed up, and,
unhooking Billy, handed him down like a young bird, into the arms held
up to catch him.

"He's all right, only scared out of his wits. Come along and look for
the other one. I'll warrant he went for help, and may be half-way home
by this time," said the hunter, who didn't take much interest in the fat
boy.

Tommy's hat lay on the ground; and showing it to the dog, his master
told him to find the boy. The good hound sniffed about, and then set off
with his nose to the ground, following the zigzag track Tommy had taken
in his hurry. The hunter and several of the men went after him, leaving
the farmer with the others to take care of Billy.

Presently the dog came to the bear-pit, and began to bark again.

"He's got him!" cried the men, much relieved; and rushing on soon saw
the good beast looking down at a little white object in one corner of
the dark hole.

It was Tommy's face in the moonlight, for the rest of him was covered up
with leaves. The little round face seemed very quiet; and for a moment
the men stood quite still, fearing that the fall might have done the boy
some harm. Then the hunter leaped down, and gently touched the brown
cheek. It was warm, and a soft snore from the pug nose made the man call
out, much relieved,--

"He's all right. Wake up here, little chap; you are wanted at home. Had
hunting enough for this time?"

As he spoke, Tommy opened his eyes, gave a stretch, and said, "Hollo,
Billy," as calmly as if in his own bed at home. Then the rustle of the
leaves, the moonlight in his face, and the sight of several men staring
down at him startled him wide awake.

"Did you shoot the big bear?" he asked, looking up at the hunter with a
grin.

"No; but I caught a little one, and here he is," answered the man,
giving Tommy a roll in the leaves, much pleased because he did not whine
or make a fuss.

"Got lost, didn't we? Oh, I say, where's Billy? I left him up a tree
like a coon, and he wouldn't come down," laughed Tommy, kicking off his
brown bed-clothes, and quite ready to get up now.

They all laughed with him; and presently, when the story was told, they
pulled the boy out of the pit, and went back to join the other wanderer,
who was now sitting up eating the bread and butter Mrs. Mullin sent for
their very late supper.

The men roared again, as the two boys told their various tribulations;
and when they had been refreshed, the party started for home, blowing
the tin horns, and firing shot after shot to let the scattered searchers
know that the lost children were found. Billy was very quiet, and gladly
rode on the various broad backs offered for his use; but Tommy stoutly
refused to be carried, and with an occasional "boost" over a very rough
place, walked all the way down on his own sturdy legs. He was the hero
of the adventure, and was never tired of relating how he caught the
woodchuck, cooked the fish, slid down the big rock, and went to bed in
the old bear-pit. But in his own little mind he resolved to wait till he
was older before he tried to be a hunter; and though he caught several
woodchucks that summer, he never shot another harmless little bird.

E-text prepared by David Clarke, Martin Pettit, and the Project Gutenberg
Online Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net)



THE BRASS BOTTLE

by

F. ANSTEY

First Published, October, 1900




CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                                 PAGE

    I. HORACE VENTIMORE RECEIVES A COMMISSION              1

   II. A CHEAP LOT                                        12

  III. AN UNEXPECTED OPENING                              18

   IV. AT LARGE                                           31

    V. CARTE BLANCHE                                      36

   VI. EMBARRAS DE RICHESSES                              51

  VII. "GRATITUDE--A LIVELY SENSE OF FAVOURS TO COME"     62

 VIII. BACHELOR'S QUARTERS                                75

   IX. "PERSICOS ODI, PUER, APPARATUS"                    85

    X. NO PLACE LIKE HOME!                               107

   XI. A FOOL'S PARADISE                                 115

  XII. THE MESSENGER OF HOPE                             132

 XIII. A CHOICE OF EVILS                                 143

  XIV. "SINCE THERE'S NO HELP, COME, LET US KISS
         AND PART!"                                      158

   XV. BLUSHING HONOURS                                  174

  XVI. A KILLING FROST                                   182

 XVII. HIGH WORDS                                        193

XVIII. A GAME OF BLUFF                                   204

       THE EPILOGUE                                      222




THE BRASS BOTTLE




CHAPTER I

HORACE VENTIMORE RECEIVES A COMMISSION


"This day six weeks--just six weeks ago!" Horace Ventimore said, half
aloud, to himself, and pulled out his watch. "Half-past twelve--what was
I doing at half-past twelve?"

As he sat at the window of his office in Great Cloister Street,
Westminster, he made his thoughts travel back to a certain glorious
morning in August which now seemed so remote and irrecoverable. At this
precise time he was waiting on the balcony of the Hôtel de la Plage--the
sole hostelry of St. Luc-en-Port, the tiny Normandy watering-place upon
which, by some happy inspiration, he had lighted during a solitary
cycling tour--waiting until She should appear.

He could see the whole scene: the tiny cove, with the violet shadow of
the cliff sleeping on the green water; the swell of the waves lazily
lapping against the diving-board from which he had plunged half an hour
before; he remembered the long swim out to the buoy; the exhilarated
anticipation with which he had dressed and climbed the steep path to the
hotel terrace.

For was he not to pass the whole remainder of that blissful day in
Sylvia Futvoye's society? Were they not to cycle together (there were,
of course, others of the party--but they did not count), to cycle over
to Veulettes, to picnic there under the cliff, and ride back--always
together--in the sweet-scented dusk, over the slopes, between the
poplars or the cornfields glowing golden against a sky of warm purple?

Now he saw himself going round to the gravelled courtyard in front of
the hotel with a sudden dread of missing her. There was nothing there
but the little low cart, with its canvas tilt which was to convey
Professor Futvoye and his wife to the place of _rendezvous_.

There was Sylvia at last, distractingly fair and fresh in her cool pink
blouse and cream-coloured skirt; how gracious and friendly and generally
delightful she had been throughout that unforgettable day, which was
supreme amongst others only a little less perfect, and all now fled for
ever!

They had had drawbacks, it was true. Old Futvoye was perhaps the least
bit of a bore at times, with his interminable disquisitions on Egyptian
art and ancient Oriental character-writing, in which he seemed convinced
that Horace must feel a perfervid interest, as, indeed, he thought it
politic to affect. The Professor was a most learned archæologist, and
positively bulged with information on his favourite subjects; but it is
just possible that Horace might have been less curious concerning the
distinction between Cuneiform and Aramæan or Kufic and Arabic
inscriptions if his informant had happened to be the father of anybody
else. However, such insincerities as these are but so many evidences of
sincerity.

So with self-tormenting ingenuity Horace conjured up various pictures
from that Norman holiday of his: the little half-timbered cottages with
their faded blue shutters and the rushes growing out of their thatch
roofs; the spires of village churches gleaming above the bronze-green
beeches; the bold headlands, their ochre and yellow cliffs contrasting
grimly with the soft ridges of the turf above them; the tethered
black-and-white cattle grazing peacefully against a background of lapis
lazuli and malachite sea, and in every scene the sensation of Sylvia's
near presence, the sound of her voice in his ears. And now?... He looked
up from the papers and tracing-cloth on his desk, and round the small
panelled room which served him as an office, at the framed plans and
photographs, the set squares and T squares on the walls, and felt a dull
resentment against his surroundings. From his window he commanded a
cheerful view of a tall, mouldering wall, once part of the Abbey
boundaries, surmounted by _chevaux-de-frise_, above whose
rust-attenuated spikes some plane trees stretched their yellowing
branches.

"She would have come to care for me," Horace's thoughts ran on,
disjointedly. "I could have sworn that that last day of all--and her
people didn't seem to object to me. Her mother asked me cordially enough
to call on them when they were back in town. When I did----"

When he had called, there had been a difference--not an unusual sequel
to an acquaintanceship begun in a Continental watering-place. It was
difficult to define, but unmistakable--a certain formality and
constraint on Mrs. Futvoye's part, and even on Sylvia's, which seemed
intended to warn him that it is not every friendship that survives the
Channel passage. So he had gone away sore at heart, but fully
recognising that any advances in future must come from their side. They
might ask him to dinner, or at least to call again; but more than a
month had passed, and they had made no sign. No, it was all over; he
must consider himself dropped.

"After all," he told himself, with a short and anything but mirthful
laugh, "it's natural enough. Mrs. Futvoye has probably been making
inquiries about my professional prospects. It's better as it is. What
earthly chance have I got of marrying unless I can get work of my own?
It's all I can do to keep myself decently. I've no right to dream of
asking any one--to say nothing of Sylvia--to marry me. I should only be
rushing into temptation if I saw any more of her. She's not for a poor
beggar like me, who was born unlucky. Well, whining won't do any
good--let's have a look at Beevor's latest performance."

He spread out a large coloured plan, in a corner of which appeared the
name of "William Beevor, Architect," and began to study it in a spirit
of anything but appreciation.

"Beevor gets on," he said to himself. "Heaven knows that I don't grudge
him his success. He's a good fellow--though he _does_ build
architectural atrocities, and seem to like 'em. Who am I to give myself
airs? He's successful--I'm not. Yet if I only had his opportunities,
what wouldn't I make of them!"

Let it be said here that this was not the ordinary self-delusion of an
incompetent. Ventimore really had talent above the average, with ideals
and ambitions which might under better conditions have attained
recognition and fulfilment before this.

But he was not quite energetic enough, besides being too proud, to push
himself into notice, and hitherto he had met with persistent ill-luck.

So Horace had no other occupation now but to give Beevor, whose offices
and clerk he shared, such slight assistance as he might require, and it
was by no means cheering to feel that every year of this enforced
semi-idleness left him further handicapped in the race for wealth and
fame, for he had already passed his twenty-eighth birthday.

If Miss Sylvia Futvoye had indeed felt attracted towards him at one time
it was not altogether incomprehensible. Horace Ventimore was not a model
of manly beauty--models of manly beauty are rare out of novels, and
seldom interesting in them; but his clear-cut, clean-shaven face
possessed a certain distinction, and if there were faint satirical lines
about the mouth, they were redeemed by the expression of the grey-blue
eyes, which were remarkably frank and pleasant. He was well made, and
tall enough to escape all danger of being described as short;
fair-haired and pale, without being unhealthily pallid, in complexion,
and he gave the impression of being a man who took life as it came, and
whose sense of humour would serve as a lining for most clouds that might
darken his horizon.

There was a rap at the door which communicated with Beevor's office, and
Beevor himself, a florid, thick-set man, with small side-whiskers, burst
in.

"I say, Ventimore, you didn't run off with the plans for that house I'm
building at Larchmere, did you? Because--ah, I see you're looking over
them. Sorry to deprive you, but----"

"Thanks, old fellow, take them, by all means. I've seen all I wanted to
see."

"Well, I'm just off to Larchmere now. Want to be there to check the
quantities, and there's my other house at Fittlesdon. I must go on
afterwards and set it out, so I shall probably be away some days. I'm
taking Harrison down, too. You won't be wanting him, eh?"

Ventimore laughed. "I can manage to do nothing without a clerk to help
me. Your necessity is greater than mine. Here are the plans."

"I'm rather pleased with 'em myself, you know," said Beevor; "that roof
ought to look well, eh? Good idea of mine lightening the slate with that
ornamental tile-work along the top. You saw I put in one of your windows
with just a trifling addition. I was almost inclined to keep both gables
alike, as you suggested, but it struck me a little variety--one red
brick and the other 'parged'--would be more out-of-the-way."

"Oh, much," agreed Ventimore, knowing that to disagree was useless.

"Not, mind you," continued Beevor, "that I believe in going in for too
much originality in domestic architecture. The average client no more
wants an original house than he wants an original hat; he wants
something he won't feel a fool in. I've often thought, old man, that
perhaps the reason why you haven't got on----you don't mind my speaking
candidly, do you?"

"Not a bit," said Ventimore, cheerfully. "Candour's the cement of
friendship. Dab it on."

"Well, I was only going to say that you do yourself no good by all those
confoundedly unconventional ideas of yours. If you had your chance
to-morrow, it's my belief you'd throw it away by insisting on some
fantastic fad or other."

"These speculations are a trifle premature, considering that there
doesn't seem the remotest prospect of my ever getting a chance at all."

"I got mine before I'd set up six months," said Beevor. "The great
thing, however," he went on, with a flavour of personal application, "is
to know how to use it when it _does_ come. Well, I must be off if I mean
to catch that one o'clock from Waterloo. You'll see to anything that may
come in for me while I'm away, won't you, and let me know? Oh, by the
way, the quantity surveyor has just sent in the quantities for that
schoolroom at Woodford--do you mind running through them and seeing
they're right? And there's the specification for the new wing at
Tusculum Lodge--you might draft that some time when you've nothing else
to do. You'll find all the papers on my desk. Thanks awfully, old chap."

And Beevor hurried back to his own room, where for the next few minutes
he could be heard bustling Harrison, the clerk, to make haste; then a
hansom was whistled for, there were footsteps down the old stairs, the
sounds of a departing vehicle on the uneven stones, and after that
silence and solitude.

It was not in Nature to avoid feeling a little envious. Beevor had work
to do in the world: even if it chiefly consisted in profaning sylvan
retreats by smug or pretentious villas, it was still work which
entitled him to consideration and respect in the eyes of all
right-minded persons.

And nobody believed in Horace; as yet he had never known the
satisfaction of seeing the work of his brain realised in stone and brick
and mortar; no building stood anywhere to bear testimony to his
existence and capability long after he himself should have passed away.

It was not a profitable train of thought, and, to escape from it, he
went into Beevor's room and fetched the documents he had mentioned--at
least they would keep him occupied until it was time to go to his club
and lunch. He had no sooner settled down to his calculations, however,
when he heard a shuffling step on the landing, followed by a knock at
Beevor's office-door. "More work for Beevor," he thought; "what luck the
fellow has! I'd better go in and explain that he's just left town on
business."

But on entering the adjoining room he heard the knocking repeated--this
time at his own door; and hastening back to put an end to this somewhat
undignified form of hide-and-seek, he discovered that this visitor at
least was legitimately his, and was, in fact, no other than Professor
Anthony Futvoye himself.

The Professor was standing in the doorway peering short-sightedly
through his convex glasses, his head protruded from his loosely-fitting
great-coat with an irresistible suggestion of an inquiring tortoise. To
Horace his appearance was more welcome than that of the wealthiest
client--for why should Sylvia's father take the trouble to pay him this
visit unless he still wished to continue the acquaintanceship? It might
even be that he was the bearer of some message or invitation.

So, although to an impartial eye the Professor might not seem the kind
of elderly gentleman whose society would produce any wild degree of
exhilaration, Horace was unfeignedly delighted to see him.

"Extremely kind of you to come and see me like this, sir," he said
warmly, after establishing him in the solitary armchair reserved for
hypothetical clients.

"Not at all. I'm afraid your visit to Cottesmore Gardens some time ago
was somewhat of a disappointment."

"A disappointment?" echoed Horace, at a loss to know what was coming
next.

"I refer to the fact--which possibly, however, escaped your
notice"--explained the Professor, scratching his scanty patch of
grizzled whisker with a touch of irascibility, "that I myself was not at
home on that occasion."

"Indeed, I was greatly disappointed," said Horace, "though of course I
know how much you are engaged. It's all the more good of you to spare
time to drop in for a chat just now."

"I've not come to chat, Mr. Ventimore. I never chat. I wanted to see you
about a matter which I thought you might be so obliging as to---- But I
observe you are busy--probably too busy to attend to such a small
affair."

It was clear enough now; the Professor was going to build, and had
decided--could it be at Sylvia's suggestion?--to entrust the work to
him! But he contrived to subdue any self-betraying eagerness, and reply
(as he could with perfect truth) that he had nothing on hand just then
which he could not lay aside, and that if the Professor would let him
know what he required, he would take it up at once.

"So much the better," said the Professor; "so much the better. Both my
wife and daughter declared that it was making far too great a demand
upon your good nature; but, as I told them, 'I am much mistaken,' I
said, 'if Mr. Ventimore's practice is so extensive that he cannot leave
it for one afternoon----'"

Evidently it was not a house. Could he be needed to escort them
somewhere that afternoon? Even that was more than he had hoped for a few
minutes since. He hastened to repeat that he was perfectly free that
afternoon.

"In that case," said the Professor, beginning to fumble in all his
pockets--was he searching for a note in Sylvia's handwriting?--"in that
case, you will be conferring a real favour on me if you can make it
convenient to attend a sale at Hammond's Auction Rooms in Covent Garden,
and just bid for one or two articles on my behalf."

Whatever disappointment Ventimore felt, it may be said to his credit
that he allowed no sign of it to appear. "Of course I'll go, with
pleasure," he said, "if I can be of any use."

"I knew I shouldn't come to you in vain," said the Professor. "I
remembered your wonderful good nature, sir, in accompanying my wife and
daughter on all sorts of expeditions in the blazing hot weather we had
at St. Luc--when you might have remained quietly at the hotel with me.
Not that I should trouble you now, only I have to lunch at the Oriental
Club, and I've an appointment afterwards to examine and report on a
recently-discovered inscribed cylinder for the Museum, which will fully
occupy the rest of the afternoon, so that it's physically impossible for
me to go to Hammond's myself, and I strongly object to employing a
broker when I can avoid it. Where did I put that catalogue?... Ah, here
it is. This was sent to me by the executors of my old friend, General
Collingham, who died the other day. I met him at Nakada when I was out
excavating some years ago. He was something of a collector in his way,
though he knew very little about it, and, of course, was taken in right
and left. Most of his things are downright rubbish, but there are just a
few lots that are worth securing, at a reasonable figure, by some one
who knew what he was about."

"But, my dear Professor," remonstrated Horace, not relishing this
responsibility, "I'm afraid I'm as likely as not to pick up some of the
rubbish. I've no special knowledge of Oriental curios."

"At St. Luc," said the Professor, "you impressed me as having, for an
amateur, an exceptionally accurate and comprehensive acquaintance with
Egyptian and Arabian art from the earliest period." (If this were so,
Horace could only feel with shame what a fearful humbug he must have
been.) "However, I've no wish to lay too heavy a burden on you, and, as
you will see from this catalogue, I have ticked off the lots in which I
am chiefly interested, and made a note of the limit to which I am
prepared to bid, so you'll have no difficulty."

"Very well," said Horace; "I'll go straight to Covent Garden, and slip
out and get some lunch later on."

"Well, perhaps, if you don't mind. The lots I have marked seem to come
on at rather frequent intervals, but don't let that consideration deter
you from getting your lunch, and if you _should_ miss anything by not
being on the spot, why, it's of no consequence, though I don't say it
mightn't be a pity. In any case, you won't forget to mark what each lot
fetches, and perhaps you wouldn't mind dropping me a line when you
return the catalogue--or stay, could you look in some time after dinner
this evening, and let me know how you got on?--that would be better."

Horace thought it would be decidedly better, and undertook to call and
render an account of his stewardship that evening. There remained the
question of a deposit, should one or more of the lots be knocked down to
him; and, as he was obliged to own that he had not so much as ten pounds
about him at that particular moment, the Professor extracted a note for
that amount from his case, and handed it to him with the air of a
benevolent person relieving a deserving object. "Don't exceed my
limits," he said, "for I can't afford more just now; and mind you give
Hammond your own name, not mine. If the dealers get to know I'm after
the things, they'll run you up. And now, I don't think I need detain you
any longer, especially as time is running on. I'm sure I can trust you
to do the best you can for me. Till this evening, then."

A few minutes later Horace was driving up to Covent Garden behind the
best-looking horse he could pick out.

The Professor might have required from him rather more than was strictly
justified by their acquaintanceship, and taken his acquiescence too much
as a matter of course--but what of that? After all, he was Sylvia's
parent.

"Even with _my_ luck," he was thinking, "I ought to succeed in getting
at least one or two of the lots he's marked; and if I can only please
him, something may come of it."

And in this sanguine mood Horace entered Messrs. Hammond's well-known
auction rooms.




CHAPTER II

A CHEAP LOT


In spite of the fact that it was the luncheon hour when Ventimore
reached Hammond's Auction Rooms, he found the big, skylighted gallery
where the sale of the furniture and effects of the late General
Collingham was proceeding crowded to a degree which showed that the
deceased officer had some reputation as a _connoisseur_.

The narrow green baize tables below the auctioneer's rostrum were
occupied by professional dealers, one or two of them women, who sat,
paper and pencil in hand, with much the same air of apparent apathy and
real vigilance that may be noticed in the Casino at Monte Carlo. Around
them stood a decorous and businesslike crowd, mostly dealers, of various
types. On a magisterial-looking bench sat the auctioneer, conducting the
sale with a judicial impartiality and dignity which forbade him, even in
his most laudatory comments, the faintest accent of enthusiasm.

The October sunshine, striking through the glazed roof, re-gilded the
tarnished gas-stars, and suffused the dusty atmosphere with palest gold.
But somehow the utter absence of excitement in the crowd, the calm,
methodical tone of the auctioneer, and the occasional mournful cry of
"Lot here, gentlemen!" from the porter when any article was too large to
move, all served to depress Ventimore's usually mercurial spirits.

For all Horace knew, the collection as a whole might be of little value,
but it very soon became clear that others besides Professor Futvoye had
singled out such gems as there were, also that the Professor had
considerably under-rated the prices they were likely to fetch.

Ventimore made his bids with all possible discretion, but time after
time he found the competition for some perforated mosque lantern,
engraved ewer, or ancient porcelain tile so great that his limit was
soon reached, and his sole consolation was that the article eventually
changed hands for sums which were very nearly double the Professor's
estimate.

Several dealers and brokers, despairing of a bargain that day, left,
murmuring profanities; most of those who remained ceased to take a
serious interest in the proceedings, and consoled themselves with cheap
witticisms at every favourable occasion.

The sale dragged slowly on, and, what with continual disappointment and
want of food, Horace began to feel so weary that he was glad, as the
crowd thinned, to get a seat at one of the green baize tables, by which
time the skylights had already changed from livid grey to slate colour
in the deepening dusk.

A couple of meek Burmese Buddhas had just been put up, and bore the
indignity of being knocked down for nine-and-sixpence the pair with
dreamy, inscrutable simpers; Horace only waited for the final lot marked
by the Professor--an old Persian copper bowl, inlaid with silver and
engraved round the rim with an inscription from Hafiz.

The limit to which he was authorised to go was two pounds ten; but, so
desperately anxious was Ventimore not to return empty-handed, that he
had made up his mind to bid an extra sovereign if necessary, and say
nothing about it.

However, the bowl was put up, and the bidding soon rose to three pounds
ten, four pounds, four pounds ten, five pounds, five guineas, for which
last sum it was acquired by a bearded man on Horace's right, who
immediately began to regard his purchase with a more indulgent eye.

Ventimore had done his best, and failed; there was no reason now why he
should stay a moment longer--and yet he sat on, from sheer fatigue and
disinclination to move.

"Now we come to Lot 254, gentlemen," he heard the auctioneer saying,
mechanically; "a capital Egyptian mummy-case in fine con---- No, I beg
pardon, I'm wrong. This is an article which by some mistake has been
omitted from the catalogue, though it ought to have been in it.
Everything on sale to-day, gentlemen, belonged to the late General
Collingham. We'll call this No. 253_a_. Antique brass bottle. Very
curious."

One of the porters carried the bottle in between the tables, and set it
down before the dealers at the farther end with a tired nonchalance.

It was an old, squat, pot-bellied vessel, about two feet high, with a
long thick neck, the mouth of which was closed by a sort of metal
stopper or cap; there was no visible decoration on its sides, which were
rough and pitted by some incrustation that had formed on them, and been
partially scraped off. As a piece of _bric-à-brac_ it certainly
possessed few attractions, and there was a marked tendency to "guy" it
among the more frivolous brethren.

"What do you call this, sir?" inquired one of the auctioneer, with the
manner of a cheeky boy trying to get a rise out of his form-master. "Is
it as 'unique' as the others?"

"You're as well able to judge as I am," was the guarded reply. "Any one
can see for himself it's not modern rubbish."

"Make a pretty little ornament for the mantelpiece!" remarked a wag.

"Is the top made to unscrew, or what, sir?" asked a third. "Seems fixed
on pretty tight."

"I can't say. Probably it has not been removed for some time."

"It's a goodish weight," said the chief humorist, after handling it.
"What's inside of it, sir--sardines?"

"I don't represent it as having anything inside it," said the
auctioneer. "If you want to know my opinion, I think there's money in
it."

"'Ow much?"

"Don't misunderstand me, gentlemen. When I say I consider there's money
in it, I'm not alluding to its contents. I've no reason to believe that
it contains anything. I'm merely suggesting the thing itself may be
worth more than it looks."

"Ah, it might be _that_ without 'urting itself!"

"Well, well, don't let us waste time. Look upon it as a pure
speculation, and make me an offer for it, some of you. Come."

"Tuppence-'ap'ny!" cried the comic man, affecting to brace himself for a
mighty effort.

"Pray be serious, gentlemen. We want to get on, you know. Anything to
make a start. Five shillings? It's not the value of the metal, but I'll
take the bid. Six. Look at it well. It's not an article you come across
every day of your lives."

The bottle was still being passed round with disrespectful raps and
slaps, and it had now come to Ventimore's right-hand neighbour, who
scrutinised it carefully, but made no bid.

"That's all _right_, you know," he whispered in Horace's ear. "That's
good stuff, that is. If I was you, I'd _'ave_ that."

"Seven shillings--eight--nine bid for it over there in the corner," said
the auctioneer.

"If you think it's so good, why don't you have it yourself?" Horace
asked his neighbour.

"Me? Oh, well, it ain't exactly in my line, and getting this last lot
pretty near cleaned me out. I've done for to-day, I 'ave. All the same,
it is a curiosity; dunno as I've seen a brass vawse just that shape
before, and it's genuine old, though all these fellers are too ignorant
to know the value of it. So I don't mind giving you the tip."

Horace rose, the better to examine the top. As far as he could make out
in the flickering light of one of the gas-stars, which the auctioneer
had just ordered to be lit, there were half-erased scratches and
triangular marks on the cap that might possibly be an inscription. If
so, might there not be the means here of regaining the Professor's
favour, which he felt that, as it was, he should probably forfeit,
justly or not, by his ill-success?

He could hardly spend the Professor's money on it, since it was not in
the catalogue, and he had no authority to bid for it, but he had a few
shillings of his own to spare. Why not bid for it on his own account as
long as he could afford to do so? If he were outbid, as usual, it would
not particularly matter.

"Thirteen shillings," the auctioneer was saying, in his dispassionate
tones. Horace caught his eye, and slightly raised his catalogue, while
another man nodded at the same time. "Fourteen in two places." Horace
raised his catalogue again. "I won't go beyond fifteen," he thought.

"Fifteen. It's _against_ you, sir. Any advance on fifteen? Sixteen--this
very quaint old Oriental bottle going for only sixteen shillings.

"After all," thought Horace, "I don't mind anything under a pound for
it." And he bid seventeen shillings. "Eighteen," cried his rival, a
short, cheery, cherub-faced little dealer, whose neighbours adjured him
to "sit quiet like a good little boy and not waste his pocket-money."

"Nineteen!" said Horace. "Pound!" answered the cherubic man.

"A pound only bid for this grand brass vessel," said the auctioneer,
indifferently. "All done at a pound?"

Horace thought another shilling or two would not ruin him, and nodded.

"A guinea. For the last time. You'll _lose_ it, sir," said the
auctioneer to the little man.

"Go on, Tommy. Don't you be beat. Spring another bob on it, Tommy," his
friends advised him ironically; but Tommy shook his head, with the air
of a man who knows when to draw the line. "One guinea--and that's not
half its value! Gentleman on my left," said the auctioneer, more in
sorrow than in anger--and the brass bottle became Ventimore's property.

He paid for it, and, since he could hardly walk home nursing a large
metal bottle without attracting an inconvenient amount of attention,
directed that it should be sent to his lodgings at Vincent Square.

But when he was out in the fresh air, walking westward to his club, he
found himself wondering more and more what could have possessed him to
throw away a guinea--when he had few enough for legitimate expenses--on
an article of such exceedingly problematical value.




CHAPTER III

AN UNEXPECTED OPENING


Ventimore made his way to Cottesmore Gardens that evening in a highly
inconsistent, not to say chaotic, state of mind. The thought that he
would presently see Sylvia again made his blood course quicker, while he
was fully determined to say no more to her than civility demanded.

At one moment he was blessing Professor Futvoye for his happy thought in
making use of him; at another he was bitterly recognising that it would
have been better for his peace of mind if he had been left alone. Sylvia
and her mother had no desire to see more of him; if they had, they would
have asked him to come before this. No doubt they would tolerate him now
for the Professor's sake; but who would not rather be ignored than
tolerated?

The more often he saw Sylvia the more she would make his heart ache with
vain longing--whereas he was getting almost reconciled to her
indifference; he would very soon be cured if he didn't see her.

Why _should_ he see her? He need not go in at all. He had merely to
leave the catalogue with his compliments, and the Professor would learn
all he wanted to know.

On second thoughts he must go in--if only to return the bank-note. But
he would ask to see the Professor in private. Most probably he would not
be invited to join his wife and daughter, but if he were, he could make
some excuse. They might think it a little odd--a little discourteous,
perhaps; but they would be too relieved to care much about that.

When he got to Cottesmore Gardens, and was actually at the door of the
Futvoyes' house, one of the neatest and demurest in that retired and
irreproachable quarter, he began to feel a craven hope that the
Professor might be out, in which case he need only leave the catalogue
and write a letter when he got home, reporting his non-success at the
sale, and returning the note.

And, as it happened, the Professor _was_ out, and Horace was not so glad
as he thought he should be. The maid told him that the ladies were in
the drawing-room, and seemed to take it for granted that he was coming
in, so he had himself announced. He would not stay long--just long
enough to explain his business there, and make it clear that he had no
wish to force his acquaintance upon them. He found Mrs. Futvoye in the
farther part of the pretty double drawing-room, writing letters, and
Sylvia, more dazzlingly fair than ever in some sort of gauzy black frock
with a heliotrope sash and a bunch of Parma violets on her breast, was
comfortably established with a book in the front room, and seemed
surprised, if not resentful, at having to disturb herself.

"I must apologise," he began, with an involuntary stiffness, "for
calling at this very unceremonious time; but the fact is, the
Professor----"

"I know all about it," interrupted Mrs. Futvoye, brusquely, while her
shrewd, light-grey eyes took him in with a cool stare that was
humorously observant without being aggressive. "We heard how shamefully
my husband abused your good-nature. Really, it was too bad of him to ask
a busy man like you to put aside his work and go and spend a whole day
at that stupid auction!"

"Oh, I'd nothing particular to do. I can't call myself a busy
man--unfortunately," said Horace, with that frankness which scorns to
conceal what other people know perfectly well already.

"Ah, well, it's very nice of you to make light of it; but he ought not
to have done it--after so short an acquaintance, too. And to make it
worse, he has had to go out unexpectedly this evening, but he'll be back
before very long if you don't mind waiting."

"There's really no need to wait," said Horace, "because this catalogue
will tell him everything, and, as the particular things he wanted went
for much more than he thought, I wasn't able to get any of them."

"I'm sure I'm very glad of it," said Mrs. Futvoye, "for his study is
crammed with odds and ends as it is, and I don't want the whole house to
look like a museum or an antiquity shop. I'd all the trouble in the
world to persuade him that a great gaudy gilded mummy-case was not quite
the thing for a drawing-room. But, please sit down, Mr. Ventimore."

"Thanks," stammered Horace, "but--but I mustn't stay. If you will tell
the Professor how sorry I was to miss him, and--and give him back this
note which he left with me to cover any deposit, I--I won't interrupt
you any longer."

He was, as a rule, imperturbable in most social emergencies, but just
now he was seized with a wild desire to escape, which, to his infinite
mortification, made him behave like a shy schoolboy.

"Nonsense!" said Mrs. Futvoye; "I am sure my husband would be most
annoyed if we didn't keep you till he came."

"I really ought to go," he declared, wistfully enough.

"We mustn't tease Mr. Ventimore to stay, mother, when he so evidently
wants to go," said Sylvia, cruelly.

"Well, I won't detain you--at least, not long. I wonder if you would
mind posting a letter for me as you pass the pillar-box? I've almost
finished it, and it ought to go to-night, and my maid Jessie has such a
bad cold I really don't like sending her out with it."

It would have been impossible to refuse to stay after that--even if he
had wished. It would only be for a few minutes. Sylvia might spare him
that much of her time. He should not trouble her again. So Mrs. Futvoye
went back to her bureau, and Sylvia and he were practically alone.

She had taken a seat not far from his, and made a few constrained
remarks, obviously out of sheer civility. He returned mechanical
replies, with a dreary wonder whether this could really be the girl who
had talked to him with such charming friendliness and confidence only a
few weeks ago in Normandy.

And the worst of it was, she was looking more bewitching than ever; her
slim arms gleaming through the black lace of her sleeves, and the gold
threads in her soft masses of chestnut hair sparkling in the light of
the shaded lamp behind her. The slight contraction of her eyebrows and
the mutinous downward curve of her mouth seemed expressive of boredom.

"What a dreadfully long time mamma is over that letter!" she said at
last. "I think I'd better go and hurry her up."

"Please don't--unless you are particularly anxious to get rid of me."

"I thought you seemed particularly anxious to escape," she said coldly.
"And, as a family, we have certainly taken up quite enough of your time
for one day."

"That is not the way you used to talk at St. Luc!" he said.

"At St. Luc? Perhaps not. But in London everything is so different, you
see."

"Very different."

"When one meets people abroad who--who seem at all inclined to be
sociable," she continued, "one is so apt to think them pleasanter than
they really are. Then one meets them again, and--and wonders what one
ever saw to like in them. And it's no use pretending one feels the same,
because they generally understand sooner or later. Don't you find that?"

"I do, indeed," he said, wincing, "though I don't know what I've done to
deserve that you should tell me so!"

"Oh, I was not blaming you. You have been most angelic. I can't think
how papa could have expected you to take all that trouble for
him--still, you did, though you must have simply hated it."

"But, good heavens! don't you know I should be only too delighted to be
of the least service to him--or to any of you?"

"You looked anything but delighted when you came in just now; you looked
as if your one idea was to get it over as soon as you could. You know
perfectly well you're longing now for mother to finish her letter and
set you free. Do you really think I can't see that?"

"If all that is true, or partly true," said Horace, "can't you guess
why?"

"I guessed how it was when you called here first that afternoon. Mamma
had asked you to, and you thought you might as well be civil; perhaps
you really did think it would be pleasant to see us again--but it wasn't
the same thing. Oh, I saw it in your face directly--you became
conventional and distant and horrid, and it made me horrid too; and you
went away determined that you wouldn't see any more of us than you could
help. That's why I was so furious when I heard that papa had been to see
you, and with such an object."

All this was so near the truth, and yet missed it with such perverse
ingenuity, that Horace felt bound to put himself right.

"Perhaps I ought to leave things as they are," he said, "but I can't.
It's no earthly use, I know; but may I tell you why it really was
painful to me to meet you again? I thought _you_ were changed, that you
wished to forget, and wished me to forget--only I can't--that we had
been friends for a short time. And though I never blamed you--it was
natural enough--it hit me pretty hard--so hard that I didn't feel
anxious to repeat the experience."

"Did it hit you hard?" said Sylvia, softly. "Perhaps I minded too, just
a very little. However," she added, with a sudden smile, that made two
enchanting dimples in her cheeks, "it only shows how much more sensible
it is to have things out. _Now_ perhaps you won't persist in keeping
away from us?"

"I believe," said Horace, gloomily, still determined not to let any
direct avowal pass his lips, "it would be best that I _should_ keep
away."

Her half-closed eyes shone through their long lashes; the violets on her
breast rose and fell. "I don't think I understand," she said, in a tone
that was both hurt and offended.

There is a pleasure in yielding to some temptations that more than
compensates for the pain of any previous resistance. Come what might, he
was not going to be misunderstood any longer.

"If I must tell you," he said, "I've fallen desperately, hopelessly, in
love with you. Now you know the reason."

"It doesn't seem a very good reason for wanting to go away and never see
me again. _Does_ it?"

"Not when I've no right to speak to you of love?"

"But you've done that!"

"I know," he said penitently; "I couldn't help it. But I never meant to.
It slipped out. I quite understand how hopeless it is."

"Of course, if you are so sure as all that, you are quite right not to
try."

"Sylvia! You can't mean that--that you do care, after all?"

"Didn't you really see?" she said, with a low, happy laugh. "How stupid
of you! And how dear!"

He caught her hand, which she allowed to rest contentedly in his. "Oh,
Sylvia! Then you do--you do! But, my God, what a selfish brute I am! For
we can't marry. It may be years before I can ask you to come to me. You
father and mother wouldn't hear of your being engaged to me."

"_Need_ they hear of it just yet, Horace?"

"Yes, they must. I should feel a cur if I didn't tell your mother, at
all events."

"Then you shan't feel a cur, for we'll go and tell her together." And
Sylvia rose and went into the farther room, and put her arms round her
mother's neck. "Mother darling," she said, in a half whisper, "it's
really all your fault for writing such very long letters, but--but--we
don't exactly know how we came to do it--but Horace and I have got
engaged somehow. You aren't _very_ angry, are you?"

"I think you're both extremely foolish," said Mrs. Futvoye, as she
extricated herself from Sylvia's arms and turned to face Horace. "From
all I hear, Mr. Ventimore, you're not in a position to marry at
present."

"Unfortunately, no" said Horace; "I'm making nothing as yet. But my
chance must come some day. I don't ask you to give me Sylvia till then."

"And you know you like Horace, mother!" pleaded Sylvia. "And I'm ready
to wait for him, any time. Nothing will induce me to give him up, and I
shall never, never care for anybody else. So you see you may just as
well give us your consent!"

"I'm afraid I've been to blame," said Mrs. Futvoye. "I ought to have
foreseen this at St. Luc. Sylvia is our only child, Mr. Ventimore, and I
would far rather see her happily married than making what is called a
'grand match.' Still, this really does seem _rather_ hopeless. I am
quite sure her father would never approve of it. Indeed, it must not be
mentioned to him--he would only be irritated."

"So long as you are not against us," said Horace, "you won't forbid me
to see her?"

"I believe I ought to," said Mrs. Futvoye; "but I don't object to your
coming here occasionally, as an ordinary visitor. Only understand
this--until you can prove to my husband's satisfaction that you are able
to support Sylvia in the manner she has been accustomed to, there must
be no formal engagement. I think I am entitled to ask _that_ of you."

She was so clearly within her rights, and so much more indulgent than
Horace had expected--for he had always considered her an unsentimental
and rather worldly woman--that he accepted her conditions almost
gratefully. After all, it was enough for him that Sylvia returned his
love, and that he should be allowed to see her from time to time.

"It's rather a pity," said Sylvia, meditatively, a little later, when
her mother had gone back to her letter-writing, and she and Horace were
discussing the future; "it's rather a pity that you didn't manage to get
_something_ at that sale. It might have helped you with papa."

"Well, I did get something on my own account," he said, "though I don't
know whether it is likely to do me any good with your father." And he
told her how he had come to acquire the brass bottle.

"And you actually gave a guinea for it?" said Sylvia, "when you could
probably get exactly the same thing, only better, at Liberty's for about
seven-and-sixpence! Nothing of that sort has any charms for papa, unless
it's dirty and dingy and centuries old."

"This looks all that. I only bought it because, though it wasn't down on
the catalogue, I had a fancy that it might interest the Professor."

"Oh!" cried Sylvia, clasping her pretty hands, "if only it does, Horace!
If it turns out to be tremendously rare and valuable! I do believe dad
would be so delighted that he'd consent to anything. Ah, that's his step
outside ... he's letting himself in. Now mind you don't forget to tell
him about that bottle."

The Professor did not seem in the sweetest of humours as he entered the
drawing-room. "Sorry I was obliged to be from home, and there was nobody
but my wife and daughter here to entertain you. But I am glad you
stayed--yes, I'm rather glad you stayed."

"So am I, sir," said Horace, and proceeded to give his account of the
sale, which did not serve to improve the Professor's temper. He thrust
out his under lip at certain items in the catalogue. "I wish I'd gone
myself," he said; "that bowl, a really fine example of sixteenth-century
Persian work, going for only five guineas! I'd willingly have given ten
for it. There, there, I thought I could have depended on you to use your
judgment better than that!"

"If you remember, sir, you strictly limited me to the sums you marked."

"Nothing of the sort," said the Professor, testily; "my marginal notes
were merely intended as indications, no more. You might have known that
if you had secured one of the things at any price I should have
approved."

Horace had no grounds for knowing anything of the kind, and much reason
for believing the contrary, but he saw no use in arguing the matter
further, and merely said he was sorry to have misunderstood.

"No doubt the fault was mine," said the Professor, in a tone that
implied the opposite. "Still, making every allowance for inexperience in
these matters, I should have thought it impossible for any one to spend
a whole day bidding at a place like Hammond's without even securing a
single article."

"But, dad," put in Sylvia, "Mr. Ventimore did get _one_ thing--on his
own account. It's a brass bottle, not down in the catalogue, but he
thinks it may be worth something perhaps. And he'd very much like to
have your opinion."

"Tchah!" said the Professor. "Some modern bazaar work, most probably.
He'd better have kept his money. What was this bottle of yours like,
now, eh?"

Horace described it.

"H'm. Seems to be what the Arabs call a 'kum-kum,' probably used as a
sprinkler, or to hold rose-water. Hundreds of 'em about," commented the
Professor, crustily.

"It had a lid, riveted or soldered on," said Horace; "the general shape
was something like this ..." And he made a rapid sketch from memory,
which the Professor took reluctantly, and then adjusted his glasses with
some increase of interest.

"Ha--the form is antique, certainly. And the top hermetically fastened,
eh? That looks as if it might contain something."

"You don't think it has a genie inside, like the sealed jar the
fisherman found in the 'Arabian Nights'?" cried Sylvia. "What fun if it
had!"

"By genie, I presume you mean a _Jinnee_, which is the more correct and
scholarly term," said the Professor. "Female, _Jinneeyeh_, and plural
_Jinn_. No, I do _not_ contemplate that as a probable contingency. But
it is not quite impossible that a vessel closed as Mr. Ventimore
describes may have been designed as a receptacle for papyri or other
records of archæological interest, which may be still in preservation. I
should recommend you, sir, to use the greatest precaution in removing
the lid--don't expose the documents, if any, too suddenly to the outer
air, and it would be better if you did not handle them yourself. I shall
be rather curious to hear whether it really does contain anything, and
if so, what."

"I will open it as carefully as possible," said Horace, "and whatever it
may contain, you may rely upon my letting you know at once."

He left shortly afterwards, encouraged by the radiant trust in Sylvia's
eyes, and thrilled by the secret pressure of her hand at parting.

He had been amply repaid for all the hours he had spent in the close
sale-room. His luck had turned at last: he was going to succeed; he felt
it in the air, as if he were already fanned by Fortune's pinions.

Still thinking of Sylvia, he let himself into the semi-detached,
old-fashioned house on the north side of Vincent Square, where he had
lodged for some years. It was nearly twelve o'clock, and his landlady,
Mrs. Rapkin, and her husband had already gone to bed.

Ventimore went up to his sitting-room, a comfortable apartment with two
long windows opening on to a trellised verandah and balcony--a room
which, as he had furnished and decorated it himself to suit his own
tastes, had none of the depressing ugliness of typical lodgings.

It was quite dark, for the season was too mild for a fire, and he had to
grope for the matches before he could light his lamp. After he had done
so and turned up the wicks, the first object he saw was the bulbous,
long-necked jar which he had bought that afternoon, and which now stood
on the stained boards near the mantelpiece. It had been delivered with
unusual promptitude!

Somehow he felt a sort of repulsion at the sight of it. "It's a
beastlier-looking object than I thought," he said to himself
disgustedly. "A chimney-pot would be about as decorative and appropriate
in my room. What a thundering ass I was to waste a guinea on it! I
wonder if there really is anything inside it. It is so infernally ugly
that it _ought_ to be useful. The Professor seemed to fancy it might
hold documents, and he ought to know. Anyway, I'll find out before I
turn in."

He grasped it by its long, thick neck, and tried to twist the cap off;
but it remained firm, which was not surprising, seeing that it was
thickly coated with a lava-like crust.

"I must get some of that off first, and then try again," he decided; and
after foraging downstairs, he returned with a hammer and chisel, with
which he chipped away the crust till the line of the cap was revealed,
and an uncouth metal knob that seemed to be a catch.

This he tapped sharply for some time, and again attempted to wrench off
the lid. Then he gripped the vessel between his knees and put forth all
his strength, while the bottle seemed to rock and heave under him in
sympathy. The cap was beginning to give way, very slightly; one last
wrench--and it came off in his hand with such suddenness that he was
flung violently backwards, and hit the back of his head smartly against
an angle of the wainscot.

He had a vague impression of the bottle lying on its side, with dense
volumes of hissing, black smoke pouring out of its mouth and towering up
in a gigantic column to the ceiling; he was conscious, too, of a pungent
and peculiarly overpowering perfume. "I've got hold of some sort of
infernal machine," he thought, "and I shall be all over the square in
less than a second!" And, just as he arrived at this cheerful
conclusion, he lost consciousness altogether.

He could not have been unconscious for more than a few seconds, for when
he opened his eyes the room was still thick with smoke, through which he
dimly discerned the figure of a stranger, who seemed of abnormal and
almost colossal height. But this must have been an optical illusion
caused by the magnifying effects of the smoke; for, as it cleared, his
visitor proved to be of no more than ordinary stature. He was elderly,
and, indeed, venerable of appearance, and wore an Eastern robe and
head-dress of a dark-green hue. He stood there with uplifted hands,
uttering something in a loud tone and a language unknown to Horace.

Ventimore, being still somewhat dazed, felt no surprise at seeing him.
Mrs. Rapkin must have let her second floor at last--to some Oriental. He
would have preferred an Englishman as a fellow-lodger, but this
foreigner must have noticed the smoke and rushed in to offer assistance,
which was both neighbourly and plucky of him.

"Awfully good of you to come in, sir," he said, as he scrambled to his
feet. "I don't know what's happened exactly, but there's no harm done.
I'm only a trifle shaken, that's all. By the way, I suppose you can
speak English?"

"Assuredly I can speak so as to be understood by all whom I address,"
answered the stranger.

"Dost thou not understand my speech?"

"Perfectly, now," said Horace. "But you made a remark just now which I
didn't follow--would you mind repeating it?"

"I said: 'Repentance, O Prophet of God! I will not return to the like
conduct ever.'"

"Ah," said Horace. "I dare say you _were_ rather startled. So was I when
I opened that bottle."

"Tell me--was it indeed thy hand that removed the seal, O young man of
kindness and good works?"

"I certainly did open it," said Ventimore, "though I don't know where
the kindness comes in--for I've no notion what was inside the thing."

"I was inside it," said the stranger, calmly.




CHAPTER IV

AT LARGE


"So _you_ were inside that bottle, were you?" said Horace, blandly. "How
singular!" He began to realise that he had to deal with an Oriental
lunatic, and must humour him to some extent. Fortunately he did not seem
at all dangerous, though undeniably eccentric-looking. His hair fell in
disorderly profusion from under his high turban about his cheeks, which
were of a uniform pale rhubarb tint; his grey beard streamed out in
three thin strands, and his long, narrow eyes, opal in hue, and set
rather wide apart and at a slight angle, had a curious expression, part
slyness and part childlike simplicity.

"Dost thou doubt that I speak truth? I tell thee that I have been
confined in that accursed vessel for countless centuries--how long, I
know not, for it is beyond calculation."

"I should hardly have thought from your appearance, sir, that you had
been so many years in bottle as all that," said Horace, politely, "but
it's certainly time you had a change. May I, if it isn't indiscreet, ask
how you came into such a very uncomfortable position? But probably you
have forgotten by this time."

"Forgotten!" said the other, with a sombre red glow in his opal eyes.
"Wisely was it written: 'Let him that desireth oblivion confer
benefits--but the memory of an injury endureth for ever.' _I_ forget
neither benefits nor injuries."

"An old gentleman with a grievance," thought Ventimore. "And mad into
the bargain. Nice person to have staying in the same house with one!"

"Know, O best of mankind," continued the stranger, "that he who now
addresses thee is Fakrash-el-Aamash, one of the Green Jinn. And I dwelt
in the Palace of the Mountain of the Clouds above the City of Babel in
the Garden of Irem, which thou doubtless knowest by repute?"

"I fancy I _have_ heard of it," said Horace, as if it were an address in
the Court Directory. "Delightful neighbourhood."

"I had a kinswoman, Bedeea-el-Jemal, who possessed incomparable beauty
and manifold accomplishments. And seeing that, though a Jinneeyeh, she
was of the believing Jinn, I despatched messengers to Suleyman the
Great, the son of Daood, offering him her hand in marriage. But a
certain Jarjarees, the son of Rejmoos, the son of Iblees--may he be for
ever accursed!--looked with favour upon the maiden, and, going secretly
unto Suleyman, persuaded him that I was preparing a crafty snare for the
King's undoing."

"And, of course, _you_ never thought of such a thing?" said Ventimore.

"By a venomous tongue the fairest motives may be rendered foul," was the
somewhat evasive reply. "Thus it came to pass that Suleyman--on whom be
peace!--listened unto the voice of Jarjarees and refused to receive the
maiden. Moreover, he commanded that I should be seized and imprisoned in
a bottle of brass and cast into the Sea of El-Karkar, there to abide the
Day of Doom."

"Too bad--really too bad!" murmured Horace, in a tone that he could only
hope was sufficiently sympathetic.

"But now, by thy means, O thou of noble ancestors and gentle
disposition, my deliverance hath been accomplished; and if I were to
serve thee for a thousand years, regarding nothing else, even thus could
I not requite thee, and my so doing would be a small thing according to
thy desserts!"

"Pray don't mention it," said Horace; "only too pleased if I've been of
any use to you."

"In the sky it is written upon the pages of the air: 'He who doth kind
actions shall experience the like.' Am I not an Efreet of the Jinn?
Demand, therefore, and thou shalt receive."

"Poor old chap!" thought Horace, "he's very cracked indeed. He'll be
wanting to give me a present of some sort soon--and of course I can't
have that.... My dear Mr. Fakrash," he said aloud, "I've done
nothing--nothing at all--and if I had, I couldn't possibly accept any
reward for it."

"What are thy names, and what calling dost thou follow?"

"I ought to have introduced myself before--let me give you my card;" and
Ventimore gave him one, which the other took and placed in his girdle.
"That's my business address. I'm an architect, if you know what that
is--a man who builds houses and churches--mosques, you know--in fact,
anything, when he can get it to build."

"A useful calling indeed--and one to be rewarded with fine gold."

"In my case," Horace confessed, "the reward has been too fine to be
perceived. In other words, I've never _been_ rewarded, because I've
never yet had the luck to get a client."

"And what is this client of whom thou speakest?"

"Oh, well, some well-to-do merchant who wants a house built for him and
doesn't care how much he spends on it. There must be lots of them
about--but they never seem to come in _my_ direction."

"Grant me a period of delay, and, if it be possible, I will procure thee
such a client."

Horace could not help thinking that any recommendation from such a
quarter would hardly carry much weight; but, as the poor old man
evidently imagined himself under an obligation, which he was anxious to
discharge, it would have been unkind to throw cold water on his good
intentions.

"My dear sir," he said lightly, "if you _should_ come across that
particular type of client, and can contrive to impress him with the
belief that I'm just the architect he's looking out for--which, between
ourselves, I am, though nobody's discovered it yet--if you can get him
to come to me, you will do me the very greatest service I could ever
hope for. But don't give yourself any trouble over it."

"It will be one of the easiest things that can be," said his visitor,
"that is" (and here a shade of rather pathetic doubt crossed his face)
"provided that anything of my former power yet remains unto me."

"Well, never mind, sir," said Horace; "if you can't, I shall take the
will for the deed."

"First of all, it will be prudent to learn where Suleyman is, that I may
humble myself before him and make my peace."

"Yes," said Horace, gently, "I would. I should make a point of that,
sir. Not _now_, you know. He might be in bed. To-morrow morning."

"This is a strange place that I am in, and I know not yet in what
direction I should seek him. But till I have found him, and justified
myself in his sight, and had my revenge upon Jarjarees, mine enemy, I
shall know no rest."

"Well, but go to bed now, like a sensible old chap," said Horace,
soothingly, anxious to prevent this poor demented Asiatic from falling
into the hands of the police. "Plenty of time to go and call on Suleyman
to-morrow."

"I will search for him, even unto the uttermost ends of the earth!"

"That's right--you're sure to find him in one of them. Only, don't you
see, it's no use starting to-night--the last trains have gone long ago."
As he spoke, the night wind bore across the square the sound of Big Ben
striking the quarters in Westminster Clock Tower, and then, after a
pause, the solemn boom that announced the first of the small hours.
"To-morrow," thought Ventimore, "I'll speak to Mrs. Rapkin, and get her
to send for a doctor and have him put under proper care--the poor old
boy really isn't fit to go about alone!"

"I will start now--at once," insisted the stranger "for there is no time
to be lost."

"Oh, come!" said Horace, "after so many thousand years, a few hours more
or less won't make any serious difference. And you _can't_ go out
now--they've shut up the house. Do let me take you upstairs to your
room, sir."

"Not so, for I must leave thee for a season, O young man of kind
conduct. But may thy days be fortunate, and the gate never cease to be
repaired, and the nose of him that envieth thee be rubbed in the dust,
for love for thee hath entered into my heart, and if it be permitted
unto me, I will cover thee with the veils of my protection!"

As he finished this harangue the speaker seemed, to Ventimore's
speechless amazement, to slip through the wall behind him. At all
events, he had left the room somehow--and Horace found himself alone.

He rubbed the back of his head, which began to be painful. "He can't
really have vanished through the wall," he said to himself. "That's too
absurd. The fact is, I'm over-excited this evening--and no wonder, after
all that's happened. The best thing I can do is to go to bed at once."

Which he accordingly proceeded to do.




CHAPTER V

CARTE BLANCHE


When Ventimore woke next morning his headache had gone, and with it the
recollection of everything but the wondrous and delightful fact that
Sylvia loved him and had promised to be his some day. Her mother, too,
was on his side; why should he despair of anything after that? There was
the Professor, to be sure--but even he might be brought to consent to an
engagement, especially if it turned out that the brass bottle ... and
here Horace began to recall an extraordinary dream in connection with
that extremely speculative purchase of his. He had dreamed that he had
forced the bottle open, and that it proved to contain, not manuscripts,
but an elderly Jinnee who alleged that he had been imprisoned there by
the order of King Solomon!

What, he wondered, could have put so grotesque a fancy into his head?
and then he smiled as he traced it to Sylvia's playful suggestion that
the bottle might contain a "genie," as did the famous jar in the
"Arabian Nights," and to her father's pedantic correction of the word to
"Jinnee." Upon that slight foundation his sleeping brain had built up
all that elaborate fabric--a scene so vivid and a story so
circumstantial and plausible that, in spite of its extravagance, he
could hardly even now persuade himself that it was entirely imaginary.
The psychology of dreams is a subject which has a fascinating mystery,
even for the least serious student.

As he entered the sitting-room, where his breakfast awaited him, he
looked round, half expecting to find the bottle lying with its lid off
in the corner, as he had last seen it in his dream.

Of course, it was not there, and he felt an odd relief. The
auction-room people had not delivered it yet, and so much the better,
for he had still to ascertain if it had anything inside it; and who knew
that it might not contain something more to his advantage than a
maundering old Jinnee with a grievance several thousands of years old?

Breakfast over, he rang for his landlady, who presently appeared. Mrs.
Rapkin was a superior type of her much-abused class. She was
scrupulously clean and neat in her person; her sandy hair was so smooth
and tightly knotted that it gave her head the colour and shape of a
Barcelona nut; she had sharp, beady eyes, nostrils that seemed to smell
battle afar off, a wide, thin mouth that apparently closed with a snap,
and a dry, whity-brown complexion suggestive of bran.

But if somewhat grim of aspect, she was a good soul and devoted to
Horace, in whom she took almost a maternal interest, while regretting
that he was not what she called "serious-minded enough" to get on in the
world. Rapkin had wooed and married her when they were both in service,
and he still took occasional jobs as an outdoor butler, though Horace
suspected that his more staple form of industry was the consumption of
gin-and-water and remarkably full-flavoured cigars in the basement
parlour.

"Shall you be dining in this evening, sir?" inquired Mrs. Rapkin.

"I don't know. Don't get anything in for me; I shall most probably dine
at the club," said Horace; and Mrs. Rapkin, who had a confirmed belief
that all clubs were hotbeds of vice and extravagance, sniffed
disapproval. "By the way," he added, "if a kind of brass pot is sent
here, it's all right. I bought it at a sale yesterday. Be careful how
you handle it--it's rather old."

"There _was_ a vawse come late last night, sir; I don't know if it's
that, it's old-fashioned enough."

"Then will you bring it up at once, please? I want to see it."

Mrs. Rapkin retired, to reappear presently with the brass bottle. "I
thought you'd have noticed it when you come in last night, sir," she
explained, "for I stood it in the corner, and when I see it this morning
it was layin' o' one side and looking that dirty and disrespectable I
took it down to give it a good clean, which it wanted it."

It certainly looked rather the better for it, and the marks or scratches
on the cap were more distinguishable, but Horace was somewhat
disconcerted to find that part of his dream was true--the bottle had
been there.

"I hope I've done nothing wrong," said Mrs. Rapkin, observing his
expression; "I only used a little warm ale to it, which is a capital
thing for brass-work, and gave it a scrub with 'Vitrolia' soap--but it
would take more than that to get all the muck off of it."

"It is all right, so long as you didn't try to get the top off," said
Horace.

"Why, the top _was_ off it, sir. I thought you'd done it with the 'ammer
and chisel when you got 'ome," said his landlady, staring. "I found them
'ere on the carpet."

Horace started. Then _that_ part was true, too! "Oh, ah," he said, "I
believe I did. I'd forgotten. That reminds me. Haven't you let the room
above to--to an Oriental gentleman--a native, you know--wears a green
turban?"

"That I most certainly 'ave _not_, Mr. Ventimore," said Mrs. Rapkin,
with emphasis, "nor wouldn't. Not if his turbin was all the colours of
the rainbow--for I don't 'old with such. Why, there was Rapkin's own
sister-in-law let her parlour floor to a Horiental--a Parsee _he_ was,
or _one_ o' them Hafrican tribes--and reason she 'ad to repent of it,
for all his gold spectacles! Whatever made you fancy I should let to a
blackamoor?"

"Oh, I thought I saw somebody about--er--answering that description,
and I wondered if----"

"Never in _this_ 'ouse, sir. Mrs. Steggars, next door but one, might let
to such, for all I can say to the contrary, not being what you might
call particular, and her rooms more suitable to savage notions--but I've
enough on _my_ hands, Mr. Ventimore, attending to you--not keeping a
girl to do the waiting, as why should I while I'm well able to do it
better myself?"

As soon as she relieved him of her presence, he examined the bottle:
there was nothing whatever inside it, which disposed of all the hopes he
had entertained from that quarter.

It was not difficult to account for the visionary Oriental as an
hallucination probably inspired by the heavy fumes (for he now believed
in the fumes) which had doubtless resulted from the rapid decomposition
of some long-buried spices or similar substances suddenly exposed to the
air.

If any further explanation were needed, the accidental blow to the back
of his head, together with the latent suggestion from the "Arabian
Nights," would amply provide it.

So, having settled these points to his entire satisfaction, he went to
his office in Great Cloister Street, which he now had entirely to
himself, and was soon engaged in drafting the specification for Beevor
on which he had been working when so fortunately interrupted the day
before by the Professor.

The work was more or less mechanical, and could bring him no credit and
little thanks, but Horace had the happy faculty of doing thoroughly
whatever he undertook, and as he sat there by his wide-open window he
soon became entirely oblivious of all but the task before him.

So much so that, even when the light became obscured for a moment, as if
by some large and opaque body in passing, he did not look up
immediately, and, when he did, was surprised to find the only armchair
occupied by a portly person, who seemed to be trying to recover his
breath.

"I beg your pardon," said Ventimore; "I never heard you come in."

His visitor could only wave his head in courteous deprecation, under
which there seemed a suspicion of bewildered embarrassment. He was a
rosy-gilled, spotlessly clean, elderly gentleman, with white whiskers;
his eyes, just then slightly protuberant, were shrewd, but genial; he
had a wide, jolly mouth and a double chin. He was dressed like a man who
is above disguising his prosperity; he wore a large, pear-shaped pearl
in his crimson scarf, and had probably only lately discarded his summer
white hat and white waistcoat.

"My dear sir," he began, in a rich, throaty voice, as soon as he could
speak; "my dear sir, you must think this is a most unceremonious way
of--ah!--dropping in on you--of invading your privacy."

"Not at all," said Horace, wondering whether he could possibly intend
him to understand that he had come in by the window. "I'm afraid there
was no one to show you in--my clerk is away just now."

"No matter, sir, no matter. I found my way up, as you perceive. The
important, I may say the essential, fact is that I _am_ here."

"Quite so," said Horace, "and may I ask what brought you?"

"What brought----" The stranger's eyes grew fish-like for the moment.
"Allow me, I--I shall come to that--in good time. I am still a
little--as you can see." He glanced round the room. "You are, I think,
an architect, Mr. ah--Mr. um----?"

"Ventimore is my name," said Horace, "and I _am_ an architect."

"Ventimore, to be sure!" he put his hand in his pocket and produced a
card: "Yes, it's all quite correct: I see I have the name here. And an
architect, Mr. Ventimore, so I--I am given to understand, of immense
ability."

"I'm afraid I can't claim to be that," said Horace, "but I may call
myself fairly competent."

"Competent? Why, of _course_ you're competent. Do you suppose, sir, that
I, a practical business man, should come to any one who was _not_
competent?" he said, with exactly the air of a man trying to convince
himself--against his own judgment--that he was acting with the utmost
prudence.

"Am I to understand that some one has been good enough to recommend me
to you?" inquired Horace.

"Certainly not, sir, certainly not. _I_ need no recommendation but my
own judgment. I--ah--have a tolerable acquaintance with all that is
going on in the art world, and I have come to the conclusion,
Mr.--eh--ah--Ventimore, I repeat, the deliberate and unassisted
conclusion, that you are the one man living who can do what I want."

"Delighted to hear it," said Horace, genuinely gratified. "When did you
see any of my designs?"

"Never mind, sir. I don't decide without very good grounds. It
doesn't take me long to make up my mind, and when my mind is made
up, I act, sir, I act. And, to come to the point, I have a small
commission--unworthy, I am quite aware, of your--ah--distinguished
talent--which I should like to put in your hands."

"Is _he_ going to ask me to attend a sale for him?" thought Horace. "I'm
hanged if I do."

"I'm rather busy at present," he said dubiously, "as you may see. I'm
not sure whether----"

"I'll put the matter in a nutshell, sir--in a nutshell. My name is
Wackerbath, Samuel Wackerbath--tolerably well known, if I may say so, in
City circles." Horace, of course, concealed the fact that his visitor's
name and fame were unfamiliar to him. "I've lately bought a few acres on
the Hampshire border, near the house I'm living in just now; and I've
been thinking--as I was saying to a friend only just now, as we were
crossing Westminster Bridge--I've been thinking of building myself a
little place there, just a humble, unpretentious home, where I could run
down for the weekend and entertain a friend or two in a quiet way, and
perhaps live some part of the year. Hitherto I've rented places as I
wanted 'em--old family seats and ancestral mansions and so forth: very
nice in their way, but I want to feel under a roof of my own. I want to
surround myself with the simple comforts, the--ah--unassuming elegance
of an English country home. And you're the man--I feel more convinced of
it with every word you say--you're the man to do the job in
style--ah--to execute the work as it should be done."

Here was the long-wished-for client at last! And it was satisfactory to
feel that he had arrived in the most ordinary and commonplace course,
for no one could look at Mr. Samuel Wackerbath and believe for a moment
that he was capable of floating through an upper window; he was not in
the least that kind of person.

"I shall be happy to do my best," said Horace, with a calmness that
surprised himself. "Could you give me some idea of the amount you are
prepared to spend?"

"Well, I'm no Croesus--though I won't say I'm a pauper precisely--and,
as I remarked before, I prefer comfort to splendour. I don't think I
should be justified in going beyond--well, say sixty thousand."

"Sixty thousand!" exclaimed Horace, who had expected about a tenth of
that sum. "Oh, not _more_ than sixty thousand? I see."

"I mean, on the house itself," explained Mr. Wackerbath; "there will be
outbuildings, lodges, cottages, and so forth, and then some of the rooms
I should want specially decorated. Altogether, before we are finished,
it may work out at about a hundred thousand. I take it that, with such a
margin, you could--ah--run me up something that in a modest way would
take the shine out of--I mean to say eclipse--anything in the adjoining
counties?"

"I certainly think," said Horace, "that for such a sum as that I can
undertake that you shall have a home which will satisfy you." And he
proceeded to put the usual questions as to site, soil, available
building materials, the accommodation that would be required, and so on.

"You're young, sir," said Mr. Wackerbath, at the end of the interview,
"but I perceive you are up to all the tricks of the--I _should_ say,
versed in the _minutiæ_ of your profession. You would like to run down
and look at the ground, eh? Well, that's only reasonable; and my wife
and daughters will want to have _their_ say in the matter--no getting on
without pleasing the ladies, hey? Now, let me see. To-morrow's Sunday.
Why not come down by the 8.45 a.m. to Lipsfield? I'll have a trap, or a
brougham and pair, or something, waiting for you--take you over the
ground myself, bring you back to lunch with us at Oriel Court, and talk
the whole thing thoroughly over. Then we'll send you up to town in the
evening, and you can start work the first thing on Monday. That suit
you? Very well, then. We'll expect you to-morrow."

With this Mr. Wackerbath departed, leaving Horace, as may be imagined,
absolutely overwhelmed by the suddenness and completeness of his good
fortune. He was no longer one of the unemployed: he had work to do, and,
better still, work that would interest him, give him all the scope and
opportunity he could wish for. With a client who seemed tractable, and
to whom money was clearly no object, he might carry out some of his most
ambitious ideas.

Moreover, he would now be in a position to speak to Sylvia's father
without fear of a repulse. His commission on £60,000 would be £3,000,
and that on the decorations and other work at least as much
again--probably more. In a year he could marry without imprudence; in
two or three years he might be making a handsome income, for he felt
confident that, with such a start, he would soon have as much work as he
could undertake.

He was ashamed of himself for ever having lost heart. What were the last
few years of weary waiting but probation and preparation for this
splendid chance, which had come just when he really needed it, and in
the most simple and natural manner?

He loyally completed the work he had promised to do for Beevor, who
would have to dispense with his assistance in future, and then he felt
too excited and restless to stay in the office, and, after lunching at
his club as usual, he promised himself the pleasure of going to
Cottesmore Gardens and telling Sylvia his good news.

It was still early, and he walked the whole way, as some vent for his
high spirits, enjoying everything with a new zest--the dappled grey and
salmon sky before him, the amber, russet, and yellow of the scanty
foliage in Kensington Gardens, the pungent scent of fallen chestnuts and
acorns and burning leaves, the blue-grey mist stealing between the
distant tree-trunks, and then the cheery bustle and brilliancy of the
High Street. Finally came the joy of finding Sylvia all alone, and
witnessing her frank delight at what he had come to tell her, of feeling
her hands on his shoulders, and holding her in his arms, as their lips
met for the first time. If on that Saturday afternoon there was a
happier man than Horace Ventimore, he would have done well to dissemble
his felicity, for fear of incurring the jealousy of the high gods.

When Mrs. Futvoye returned, as she did only too soon, to find her
daughter and Horace seated on the same sofa, she did not pretend to be
gratified. "This is taking a most unfair advantage of what I was weak
enough to say last night, Mr. Ventimore," she began. "I thought I could
have trusted you!"

"I shouldn't have come so soon," he said, "if my position were what it
was only yesterday. But it's changed since then, and I venture to hope
that even the Professor won't object now to our being regularly
engaged." And he told her of the sudden alteration in his prospects.

"Well," said Mrs. Futvoye, "you had better speak to my husband about
it."

The Professor came in shortly afterwards, and Horace immediately
requested a few minutes' conversation with him in the study, which was
readily granted.

The study to which the Professor led the way was built out at the back
of the house, and crowded with Oriental curios of every age and kind;
the furniture had been made by Cairene cabinet-makers, and along the
cornices of the book-cases were texts from the Koran, while every chair
bore the Arabic for "Welcome" in a gilded firework on its leather back;
the lamp was a perforated mosque lantern with long pendent glass tubes
like hyacinth glasses; a mummy-case smiled from a corner with laboured
_bonhomie_.

"Well," began the Professor, as soon as they were seated, "so I was not
mistaken--there was something in the brass bottle after all, then? Let's
have a look at it, whatever it is."

For the moment Horace had almost forgotten the bottle. "Oh!" he said,
"I--I got it open; but there was nothing in it."

"Just as I anticipated, sir," said the Professor. "I told you there
couldn't be anything in a bottle of that description; it was simply
throwing money away to buy it."

"I dare say it was, but I wished to speak to you on a much more
important matter;" and Horace briefly explained his object.

"Dear me," said the Professor, rubbing up his hair irritably, "dear me!
I'd no idea of this--no idea at all. I was under the impression that you
volunteered to act as escort to my wife and daughter at St. Luc purely
out of good nature to relieve me from what--to a man of my habits in
that extreme heat--would have been an arduous and distasteful duty."

"I was not wholly unselfish, I admit," said Horace. "I fell in love with
your daughter, sir, the first day I met her--only I felt I had no right,
as a poor man with no prospects, to speak to her or you at that time."

"A very creditable feeling--but I've yet to learn why you should have
overcome it."

So, for the third time, Ventimore told the story of the sudden turn in
his fortunes.

"I know this Mr. Samuel Wackerbath by name," said the Professor; "one of
the chief partners in the firm of Akers and Coverdale, the great estate
agents--a most influential man, if you can only succeed in satisfying
him."

"Oh, I don't feel any misgivings about that, sir," said Horace. "I mean
to build him a house that will be beyond his wildest expectations, and
you see that in a year I shall have earned several thousands, and I need
not say that I will make any settlement you think proper when I
marry----"

"When you are in possession of those thousands," remarked the Professor,
dryly, "it will be time enough to talk of marrying and making
settlements. Meanwhile, if you and Sylvia choose to consider yourselves
engaged, I won't object--only I must insist on having your promise that
you won't persuade her to marry you without her mother's and my
consent."

Ventimore gave this undertaking willingly enough, and they returned to
the drawing-room. Mrs. Futvoye could hardly avoid asking Horace, in his
new character of _fiancé_, to stay and dine, which it need not be said
he was only too delighted to do.

"There is one thing, my dear--er--Horace," said the Professor, solemnly,
after dinner, when the neat parlourmaid had left them at dessert, "one
thing on which I think it my duty to caution you. If you are to justify
the confidence we have shown in sanctioning your engagement to Sylvia,
you must curb this propensity of yours to needless extravagance."

"Papa!" cried Sylvia. "What _could_ have made you think Horace
extravagant?"

"Really," said Horace, "I shouldn't have called myself particularly so."

"Nobody ever _does_ call himself particularly extravagant," retorted the
Professor; "but I observed at St. Luc that you habitually gave fifty
centimes as a _pourboire_ when twopence, or even a penny, would have
been handsome. And no one with any regard for the value of money would
have given a guinea for a worthless brass vessel on the bare chance that
it might contain manuscripts, which (as any one could have foreseen) it
did not."

"But it's not a bad sort of bottle, sir," pleaded Horace. "If you
remember, you said yourself the shape was unusual. Why shouldn't it be
worth all the money, and more?"

"To a collector, perhaps," said the Professor, with his wonted
amiability, "which you are not. No, I can only call it a senseless and
reprehensible waste of money."

"Well, the truth is," said Horace, "I bought it with some idea that it
might interest _you_."

"Then you were mistaken, sir. It does _not_ interest me. Why should I be
interested in a metal jar which, for anything that appears to the
contrary, may have been cast the other day at Birmingham?"

"But there _is_ something," said Horace; "a seal or inscription of some
sort engraved on the cap. Didn't I mention it?"

"You said nothing about an inscription before," replied the Professor,
with rather more interest. "What is the character--Arabic? Persian?
Kufic?"

"I really couldn't say--it's almost rubbed out--queer little triangular
marks, something like birds' footprints."

"That sounds like Cuneiform," said the Professor, "which would seem to
point to a Phoenician origin. And, as I am acquainted with no Oriental
brass earlier than the ninth century of our era, I should regard your
description as, _à priori_, distinctly unlikely. However, I should
certainly like to have an opportunity of examining the bottle for myself
some day."

"Whenever you please, Professor. When can you come?"

"Why, I'm so much occupied all day that I can't say for certain when I
can get up to your office again."

"My own days will be fairly full now," said Horace; "and the thing's not
at the office, but in my rooms at Vincent Square. Why shouldn't you all
come and dine quietly there some evening next week, and then you could
examine the inscription comfortably afterwards, you know, Professor, and
find out what it really is? Do say you will." He was eager to have the
privilege of entertaining Sylvia in his own rooms for the first time.

"No, no," said the Professor; "I see no reason why you should be
troubled with the entire family. I may drop in alone some evening and
take the luck of the pot, sir."

"Thank you, papa," put in Sylvia; "but _I_ should like to come too,
please, and hear what you think of Horace's bottle. And I'm dying to see
his rooms. I believe they're fearfully luxurious."

"I trust," observed her father, "that they are far indeed from answering
that description. If they did, I should consider it a most
unsatisfactory indication of Horace's character."

"There's nothing magnificent about them, I assure you," said Horace.
"Though it's true I've had them done up, and all that sort of thing, at
my own expense--but quite simply. I couldn't afford to spend much on
them. But do come and see them. I must have a little dinner, to
celebrate my good fortune--it will be so jolly if you'll all three
come."

"If we do come," stipulated the Professor, "it must be on the distinct
understanding that you don't provide an elaborate banquet. Plain,
simple, wholesome food, well cooked, such as we have had this evening,
is all that is necessary. More would be ostentatious."

"My _dear_ dad!" protested Sylvia, in distress at this somewhat
dictatorial speech. "Surely you can leave all that to Horace!"

"Horace, my dear, understands that, in speaking as I did, I was simply
treating him as a potential member of my family." Here Sylvia made a
private little grimace. "No young man who contemplates marrying should
allow himself to launch into extravagance on the strength of prospects
which, for all he can tell," said the Professor, genially, "may prove
fallacious. On the contrary, if his affection is sincere, he will incur
as little expense as possible, put by every penny he can save, rather
than subject the girl he professes to love to the ordeal of a long
engagement. In other words, the truest lover is the best economist."

"I quite understand, sir," said Horace, good-temperedly; "it would be
foolish of me to attempt any ambitious form of entertainment--especially
as my landlady, though an excellent plain cook, is not exactly a _cordon
bleu_. So you can come to my modest board without misgivings."

Before he left, a provisional date for the dinner was fixed for an
evening towards the end of the next week, and Horace walked home,
treading on air rather than hard paving-stones, and "striking the stars
with his uplifted head."

The next day he went down to Lipsfield and made the acquaintance of the
whole Wackerbath family, who were all enthusiastic about the proposed
country house. The site was everything that the most exacting architect
could desire, and he came back to town the same evening, having spent a
pleasant day and learnt enough of his client's requirements, and--what
was even more important--those of his client's wife and daughters, to
enable him to begin work upon the sketch-plans the next morning.

He had not been long in his rooms at Vincent Square, and was still
agreeably engaged in recalling the docility and ready appreciation with
which the Wackerbaths had received his suggestions and rough sketches,
their compliments and absolute confidence in his skill, when he had a
shock which was as disagreeable as it was certainly unexpected.

For the wall before him parted like a film, and through it stepped,
smiling benignantly, the green-robed figure of Fakrash-el-Aamash, the
Jinnee.




CHAPTER VI

EMBARRAS DE RICHESSES


Ventimore had so thoroughly convinced himself that the released Jinnee
was purely a creature of his own imagination, that he rubbed his eyes
with a start, hoping that they had deceived him.

"Stroke thy head, O merciful and meritorious one," said his visitor,
"and recover thy faculties to receive good tidings. For it is indeed
I--Fakrash-el-Aamash--whom thou beholdest."

"I--I'm delighted to see you," said Horace, as cordially as he could.
"Is there anything I can do for you?"

"Nay, for hast thou not done me the greatest of all services by setting
me free? To escape out of a bottle is pleasant. And to thee I owe my
deliverance."

It was all true, then: he had really let an imprisoned Genius or Jinnee,
or whatever it was, out of that bottle! He knew he could not be dreaming
now--he only wished he were. However, since it was done, his best course
seemed to be to put a good face on it, and persuade this uncanny being
somehow to go away and leave him in peace for the future.

"Oh, that's all right, my dear sir," he said, "don't think any more
about it. I--I rather understood you to say that you were starting on a
journey in search of Solomon?"

"I have been, and returned. For I visited sundry cities in his
dominions, hoping that by chance I might hear news of him, but I
refrained from asking directly lest thereby I should engender suspicion,
and so Suleyman should learn of my escape before I could obtain an
audience of him and implore justice."

"Oh, I shouldn't think that was likely," said Horace. "If I were you, I
should go straight back and go on travelling till I _did_ find
Suleyman."

"Well was it said: 'Pass not any door without knocking, lest haply that
which thou seekest should be behind it.'"

"Exactly," said Horace. "Do each city thoroughly, house by house, and
don't neglect the smallest clue. 'If at first you don't succeed, try,
try, try, again!' as one of our own poets teaches."

"'Try, try, try again,'" echoed the Jinnee, with an admiration that was
almost fatuous. "Divinely gifted truly was he who composed such a
verse!"

"He has a great reputation as a sage," said Horace, "and the maxim is
considered one of his happiest efforts. Don't you think that, as the
East is rather thickly populated, the less time you lose in following
the poet's recommendation the better?"

"It may be as thou sayest. But know this, O my son, that wheresoever I
may wander, I shall never cease to study how I may most fitly reward
thee for thy kindness towards me. For nobly it was said: 'If I be
possessed of wealth and be not liberal, may my head never be extended!'"

"My good sir," said Horace, "do please understand that if you were to
offer me any reward for--for a very ordinary act of courtesy, I should
be obliged to decline it."

"But didst thou not say that thou wast sorely in need of a client?"

"That was so at the time," said Horace; "but since I last had the
pleasure of seeing you, I have met with one who is all I could possibly
wish for."

"I am indeed rejoiced to hear it," returned the Jinnee, "for thou
showest me that I have succeeded in performing the first service which
thou hast demanded of me."

Horace staggered under this severe blow to his pride; for the moment he
could only gasp: "You--_you_ sent him to me?"

"I, and no other," said the Jinnee, beaming with satisfaction; "for
while, unseen of men, I was circling in air, resolved to attend to thy
affair before beginning my search for Suleyman (on whom be peace!), it
chanced that I overheard a human being of prosperous appearance say
aloud upon a bridge that he desired to erect for himself a palace if he
could but find an architect. So, perceiving thee afar off seated at an
open casement, I immediately transported him to the place and delivered
him into thy hands."

"But he knew my name--he had my card in his pocket," said Horace.

"I furnished him with the paper containing thy names and abode, lest he
should be ignorant of them."

"Well, look here, Mr. Fakrash," said the unfortunate Horace, "I know you
meant well--but _never_ do a thing like that again! If my
brother-architects came to know of it I should be accused of most
unprofessional behaviour. I'd no idea you would take that way of
introducing a client to me, or I should have stopped it at once!"

"It was an error," said Fakrash. "No matter. I will undo this affair,
and devise some other and better means of serving thee."

"No, no," he said, "for Heaven's sake, leave things alone--you'll only
make them worse. Forgive me, my dear Mr. Fakrash, I'm afraid I must seem
most ungrateful; but--but I was so taken by surprise. And really, I am
extremely obliged to you. For, though the means you took were----were a
little irregular, you have done me a very great service."

"It is naught," said the Jinnee, "compared to those I hope to render so
great a benefactor."

"But, indeed, you mustn't think of trying to do any more for me," urged
Horace, who felt the absolute necessity of expelling any scheme of
further benevolence from the Jinnee's head once and for all. "You have
done enough. Why, thanks to you, I am engaged to build a palace that
will keep me hard at work and happy for ever so long."

"Are human beings, then, so enamoured of hard labour?" asked Fakrash, in
wonder. "It is not thus with the Jinn."

"I love my work for its own sake," said Horace, "and then, when I have
finished it, I shall have earned a very fair amount of money--which is
particularly important to me just now."

"And why, my son, art thou so desirous of obtaining riches?"

"Because," said Horace, "unless a man is tolerably well off in these
days he cannot hope to marry."

Fakrash smiled with indulgent compassion. "How excellent is the saying
of one of old: 'He that adventureth upon matrimony is like unto one who
thrusteth his hand into a sack containing many thousands of serpents and
one eel. Yet, if Fate so decree, he _may_ draw forth the eel.' And thou
art comely, and of an age when it is natural to desire the love of a
maiden. Therefore be of good heart and a cheerful eye, and it may be
that, when I am more at leisure, I shall find thee a helpmate who shall
rejoice thy soul."

"Please don't trouble to find me anything of the sort!" said Horace,
hastily, with a mental vision of some helpless and scandalised stranger
being shot into his dwelling like coals. "I assure you I would much
rather win a wife for myself in the ordinary way--as, thanks to your
kindness, I have every hope of doing before long."

"Is there already some damsel for whom thy heart pineth? If so, fear not
to tell me her names and dwelling place, and I will assuredly obtain her
for thee."

But Ventimore had seen enough of the Jinnee's Oriental methods to doubt
his tact and discretion where Sylvia was concerned. "No, no; of course
not. I spoke generally," he said. "It's exceedingly kind of you--but I
_do_ wish I could make you understand that I am overpaid as it is. You
have put me in the way to make a name and fortune for myself. If I fail,
it will be my own fault. And, at all events, I want nothing more from
you. If you mean to find Suleyman (on whom be peace!) you must go and
live in the East altogether--for he certainly isn't over here; you must
give up your whole time to it, keep as quiet as possible, and don't be
discouraged by any reports you may hear. Above all, never trouble your
head about me or my affairs again!"

"O thou of wisdom and eloquence," said Fakrash, "this is most excellent
advice. I will go, then; but may I drink the cup of perdition if I
become unmindful of thy benevolence!"

And, raising his joined hands above his head as he spoke, he sank, feet
foremost, through the carpet and was gone.

"Thank Heaven," thought Ventimore, "he's taken the hint at last. I don't
think I'm likely to see any more of him. I feel an ungrateful brute for
saying so, but I can't help it. I can _not_ stand being under any
obligation to a Jinnee who's been shut up in a beastly brass bottle ever
since the days of Solomon, who probably had very good reasons for
putting him there."

Horace next asked himself whether he was bound in honour to disclose the
facts to Mr. Wackerbath, and give him the opportunity of withdrawing
from the agreement if he thought fit.

On the whole, he saw no necessity for telling him anything; the only
possible result would be to make his client suspect his sanity; and who
would care to employ an insane architect? Then, if he retired from the
undertaking without any explanations, what could he say to Sylvia? What
would Sylvia's father say to _him_? There would certainly be an end to
his engagement.

After all, he had not been to blame; the Wackerbaths were quite
satisfied. He felt perfectly sure that he could justify their selection
of him; he would wrong nobody by accepting the commission, while he
would only offend them, injure himself irretrievably, and lose all hope
of gaining Sylvia if he made any attempt to undeceive them.

And Fakrash was gone, never to return. So, on all these considerations,
Horace decided that silence was his only possible policy, and, though
some moralists may condemn his conduct as disingenuous and wanting in
true moral courage, I venture to doubt whether any reader, however
independent, straightforward, and indifferent to notoriety and ridicule,
would have behaved otherwise in Ventimore's extremely delicate and
difficult position.

Some days passed, every working hour of which was spent by Horace in the
rapture of creation. To every man with the soul of an artist in him
there comes at times--only too seldom in most cases--a revelation of
latent power that he had not dared to hope for. And now with Ventimore
years of study and theorising which he had often been tempted to think
wasted began to bear golden fruit. He designed and drew with a rapidity
and originality, a sense of perfect mastery of the various problems to
be dealt with, and a delight in the working out of mass and detail, so
intoxicating that he almost dreaded lest he should be the victim of some
self-delusion.

His evenings were of course spent with the Futvoyes, in discovering
Sylvia in some new and yet more adorable aspect. Altogether, he was very
much in love, very happy, and very busy--three states not invariably
found in combination.

And, as he had foreseen, he had effectually got rid of Fakrash, who was
evidently too engrossed in the pursuit of Solomon to think of anything
else. And there seemed no reason why he should abandon his search for a
generation or two, for it would probably take all that time to convince
him that that mighty monarch was no longer on the throne.

"It would have been too brutal to tell him myself," thought Horace,
"when he was so keen on having his case reheard. And it gives him an
object, poor old buffer, and keeps him from interfering in my affairs,
so it's best for both of us."

Horace's little dinner-party had been twice postponed, till he had begun
to have a superstitious fear that it would never come off; but at length
the Professor had been induced to give an absolute promise for a certain
evening.

On the day before, after breakfast, Horace had summoned his landlady to
a consultation on the _menu_. "Nothing elaborate, you know, Mrs.
Rapkin," said Horace, who, though he would have liked to provide a feast
of all procurable delicacies for Sylvia's refection, was obliged to
respect her father's prejudices. "Just a simple dinner, thoroughly well
cooked, and nicely served--as you know so well how to do it."

"I suppose, sir, you would require Rapkin to wait?"

As the ex-butler was liable to trances on these occasions during which
he could do nothing but smile and bow with speechless politeness as he
dropped sauce-boats and plates, Horace replied that he thought of having
someone in to avoid troubling Mr. Rapkin; but his wife expressed such
confidence in her husband's proving equal to all emergencies, that
Ventimore waived the point, and left it to her to hire extra help if she
thought fit.

"Now, what soup can you give us?" he inquired, as Mrs. Rapkin stood at
attention and quite unmollified.

After protracted mental conflict, she grudgingly suggested gravy
soup--which Horace thought too unenterprising, and rejected in favour of
mock turtle. "Well then, fish?" he continued; "how about fish?"

Mrs. Rapkin dragged the depths of her culinary resources for several
seconds, and finally brought to the surface what she called "a nice
fried sole." Horace would not hear of it, and urged her to aspire to
salmon; she substituted smelts, which he opposed by a happy inspiration
of turbot and lobster sauce. The sauce, however, presented insuperable
difficulties to her mind, and she offered a compromise in the form of
cod--which he finally accepted as a fish which the Professor could
hardly censure for ostentation.

Next came the no less difficult questions of _entrée_ or no _entrée_, of
joint and bird. "What's in season just now?" said Horace; "let me
see"--and glanced out of the window as he spoke, as though in search of
some outside suggestion.... "Camels, by Jove!" he suddenly exclaimed.

"_Camels_, Mr. Ventimore, sir?" repeated Mrs. Rapkin, in some
bewilderment; and then, remembering that he was given to untimely
flippancy, she gave a tolerant little cough.

"I'll be shot if they _aren't_ camels!" said Horace. "What do _you_ make
of 'em, Mrs. Rapkin?"

Out of the faint mist which hung over the farther end of the square
advanced a procession of tall, dust-coloured animals, with long,
delicately poised necks and a mincing gait. Even Mrs. Rapkin could not
succeed in making anything of them except camels.

"What the deuce does a caravan of camels want in Vincent Square?" said
Horace, with a sudden qualm for which he could not account.

"Most likely they belong to the Barnum Show, sir," suggested his
landlady. "I did hear they were coming to Olympia again this year."

"Why, of course," cried Horace, intensely relieved. "It's on their way
from the Docks--at least, it isn't _out_ of their way. Or probably the
main road's up for repairs. That's it--they'll turn off to the left at
the corner. See, they've got Arab drivers with them. Wonderful how the
fellows manage them."

"It seems to me, sir," said Mrs. Rapkin, "that they're coming _our_
way--they seem to be stopping outside."

"Don't talk such infernal---- I beg your pardon, Mrs. Rapkin; but why
on earth should Barnum and Bailey's camels come out of their way to call
on _me_? It's ridiculous, you know!" said Horace, irritably.

"Ridicklous it _may_ be, sir," she retorted, "but they're all layin'
down on the road opposite our door, as you can see--and them niggers is
making signs to you to come out and speak to 'em."

It was true enough. One by one the camels, which were apparently of the
purest breed, folded themselves up in a row like campstools at a sign
from their attendants, who were now making profound salaams towards the
window where Ventimore was standing.

"I suppose I'd better go down and see what they want," he said, with
rather a sickly smile. "They may have lost the way to Olympia.... I only
hope Fakrash isn't at the bottom of this," he thought, as he went
downstairs. "But he'd come himself--at all events, he wouldn't send me a
message on such a lot of camels!" As he appeared on the doorstep, all
the drivers flopped down and rubbed their flat, black noses on the
curbstone.

"For Heaven's sake get up!" said Horace angrily. "This isn't
Hammersmith. Turn to the left, into the Vauxhall Bridge Road, and ask a
policeman the nearest way to Olympia."

"Be not angry with thy slaves!" said the head driver, in excellent
English. "We are here by command of Fakrash-el-Aamash, our lord, whom we
are bound to obey. And we have brought thee these as gifts."

"My compliments to your master," said Horace, between his teeth, "and
tell him that a London architect has no sort of occasion for camels. Say
that I am extremely obliged--but am compelled to decline them."

"O highly born one," explained the driver, "the camels are not a
gift--but the loads which are upon the camels. Suffer us, therefore,
since we dare not disobey our lord's commands, to carry these trifling
tokens of his good will into thy dwelling and depart in peace."

Horace had not noticed till then that every camel bore a heavy burden,
which the attendants were now unloading. "Oh, if you _must_!" he said,
not too graciously; "only do look sharp about it--there's a crowd
collecting already, and I don't want to have a constable here."

He returned to his rooms, where he found Mrs. Rapkin paralysed with
amazement. "It's--it's all right," he said; "I'd forgotten--it's only a
few Oriental things from the place where that brass bottle came from,
you know. They've left them here--on approval."

"Seems funny their sending their goods 'ome on camels, sir, doesn't it?"
said Mrs. Rapkin.

"Not at all funny!" said Horace; "they--they're an enterprising
firm--their way of advertising."

One after another, a train of dusky attendants entered, each of whom
deposited his load on the floor with a guttural grunt and returned
backward, until the sitting-room was blocked with piles of sacks, and
bales, and chests, whereupon the head driver appeared and intimated that
the tale of gifts was complete.

"I wonder what sort of tip this fellow expects," thought Horace; "a
sovereign seems shabby--but it's all I can run to. I'll try him with
that."

But the overseer repudiated all idea of a gratuity with stately dignity,
and as Horace saw him to the gate, he found a stolid constable by the
railings.

"This won't _do_, you know," said the constable; "these 'ere camels must
move on--or I shall 'ave to interfere."

"It's all right, constable," said Horace, pressing into his hand the
sovereign the head driver had rejected; "they're going to move on now.
They've brought me a few presents from--from a friend of mine in the
East."

By this time the attendants had mounted the kneeling camels, which rose
with them, and swung off round the square in a long, swaying trot that
soon left the crowd far behind, staring blankly after the caravan as
camel after camel disappeared into the haze.

"I shouldn't mind knowin' that friend o' yours, sir," said the
constable; "open-hearted sort o' gentleman, I should think?"

"Very!" said Horace, savagely, and returned to his room, which Mrs.
Rapkin had now left.

His hands shook, though not with joy, as he untied some of the sacks and
bales and forced open the outlandish-looking chests, the contents of
which almost took away his breath.

For in the bales were carpets and tissues which he saw at a glance must
be of fabulous antiquity and beyond all price; the sacks held golden
ewers and vessels of strange workmanship and pantomimic proportions; the
chests were full of jewels--ropes of creamy-pink pearls as large as
average onions, strings of uncut rubies and emeralds, the smallest of
which would have been a tight fit in an ordinary collar-box, and
diamonds, roughly facetted and polished, each the size of a coconut, in
whose hearts quivered a liquid and prismatic radiance.

On the most moderate computation, the total value of these gifts could
hardly be less than several hundred millions; never probably in the
world's history had any treasury contained so rich a store.

It would have been difficult for anybody, on suddenly finding himself
the possessor of this immense incalculable wealth, to make any comment
quite worthy of the situation, but, surely, none could have been more
inadequate and indeed inappropriate than Horace's--which, heartfelt as
it was, was couched in the simple monosyllable--"Damn!"




CHAPTER VII

"GRATITUDE--A LIVELY SENSE OF FAVOURS TO COME"


Most men on suddenly finding themselves in possession of such enormous
wealth would have felt some elation. Ventimore, as we have seen, was
merely exasperated. And, although this attitude of his may strike the
reader as incomprehensible or absolutely wrong-headed, he had more
reason on his side than might appear at a first view.

It was undoubtedly the fact that, with the money these treasures
represented, he would be in a position to convulse the money markets of
Europe and America, bring society to his feet, make and unmake
kingdoms--dominate, in short, the entire world.

"But, then," as Horace told himself with a groan, "it wouldn't amuse me
in the least to convulse money markets. Do I want to see the smartest
people in London grovelling for anything they think they're likely to
get out of me? As I should be perfectly well aware that their homage was
not paid to any personal merit of mine, I could hardly consider it
flattering. And why should I make kingdoms? The only thing I understand
and care about is making houses. Then, am I likely to be a better hand
at dominating the world than all the others who have tried the
experiment? I doubt it."

He called to mind all the millionaires he had ever read or heard of;
they didn't seem to get much fun out of their riches. The majority of
them were martyrs to dyspepsia. They were often weighed down by the
cares and responsibilities of their position; the only people who were
unable to obtain an audience of them at any time were their friends;
they lived in a glare of publicity, and every post brought them
hundreds of begging letters, and a few threats; their children were in
constant danger from kidnappers, and they themselves, after knowing no
rest in life, could not be certain that even their tombs would be
undisturbed. Whether they were extravagant or thrifty, they were equally
maligned, and, whatever the fortune they left behind them, they could be
absolutely certain that, in a couple of generations, it would be
entirely dissipated.

"And the biggest millionaire living," concluded Horace, "is a pauper
compared with me!"

But there was another consideration--how was he to realise all this
wealth? He knew enough about precious stones to be aware that a ruby,
for instance, of the true "pigeon's blood" colour and the size of a
melon, as most of these rubies were, would be worth, even when cut,
considerably over a million; but who would buy it?

"I think I see myself," he reflected grimly, "calling on some diamond
merchant in Hatton Garden with half a dozen assorted jewels in a
Gladstone bag. If he believed they were genuine, he'd probably have a
fit; but most likely he'd think I'd invented some dodge for
manufacturing them, and had been fool enough to overdo the size. Anyhow,
he'd want to know how they came into my possession, and what could I
say? That they were part of a little present made to me by a Jinnee in
grateful acknowledgment of my having relieved him from a brass bottle in
which he'd been shut up for nearly three thousand years? Look at it how
you will, it's _not_ convincing. I fancy I can guess what he'd say. And
what an ass I should look! Then suppose the thing got into the papers?"

Got into the papers? Why, of course it would get into the papers. As if
it were possible in these days for a young and hitherto unemployed
architect suddenly to surround himself with wondrous carpets, and gold
vessels, and gigantic jewels without attracting the notice of some
enterprising journalist. He would be interviewed; the story of his
curiously acquired riches would go the round of the papers; he would
find himself the object of incredulity, suspicion, ridicule. In
imagination he could already see the headlines on the news-sheets:


            BOTTLED BILLIONS

    AMAZING ARABESQUES BY AN ARCHITECT

    HE SAYS THE JAR CONTAINED A JINNEE

            SENSATIONAL STORY

            DIVERTING DETAILS


And so on, through every phrase of alliterative ingenuity. He ground his
teeth at the mere thought of it. Then Sylvia would come to hear of it,
and what would _she_ think? She would naturally be repelled, as any
nice-minded girl would be, by the idea that her lover was in secret
alliance with a supernatural being. And her father and mother--would
they allow her to marry a man, however rich, whose wealth came from such
a questionable source? No one would believe that he had not made some
unholy bargain before consenting to set this incarcerated spirit
free--he, who had acted in absolute ignorance, who had persistently
declined all reward after realising what he had done!

No, it was too much. Try as he might to do justice to the Jinnee's
gratitude and generosity, he could not restrain a bitter resentment at
the utter want of consideration shown in overloading him with gifts so
useless and so compromising. No Jinnee--however old, however unfamiliar
with the world as it is now--had any right to be such a fool!

And at this, above the ramparts of sacks and bales, which occupied all
the available space in the room, appeared Mrs. Rapkin's face.

"I was going to ask you, sir, before them parcels came," she began,
with a dry cough of disapproval, "what you would like in the way of
ongtray to-morrow night. I thought if I could find a sweetbread at all
reasonable----"

To Horace--surrounded as he was by incalculable riches--sweetbreads
seemed incongruous just then; the transition of thought was too violent.

"I can't bother about that now, Mrs. Rapkin," he said; "we'll settle it
to-morrow. I'm too busy."

"I suppose most of these things will have to go back, sir, if they're
only sent on approval like?"

If he only knew where and how he could send them back! "I--I'm not
sure," he said; "I may have to keep them."

"Well, sir, bargain or none, I wouldn't have 'em as a gift myself, being
so dirty and fusty; they can't be no use to anybody, not to mention
there being no room to move with them blocking up all the place. I'd
better tell Rapkin to carry 'em all upstairs out of people's way."

"Certainly not," said Horace, sharply, by no means anxious for the
Rapkins to discover the real nature of his treasures. "Don't touch them,
either of you. Leave them exactly as they are, do you understand?"

"As you please, Mr. Ventimore, sir; only, if they're not to be
interfered with, I don't see myself how you're going to set your friends
down to dinner to-morrow, that's all."

And, indeed, considering that the table and every available chair, and
even the floor, were heaped so high with valuables that Horace himself
could only just squeeze his way between the piles, it seemed as if his
guests might find themselves inconveniently cramped.

"It will be all right," he said, with an optimism he was very far from
feeling; "we'll manage somehow--leave it to me."

Before he left for his office he took the precaution to baffle any
inquisitiveness on the part of his landlady by locking his sitting-room
door and carrying away the key, but it was in a very different mood from
his former light-hearted confidence that he sat down to his
drawing-board in Great Cloister Street that morning. He could not
concentrate his mind; his enthusiasm and his ideas had alike deserted
him.

He flung down the dividers he had been using and pushed away the nest of
saucers of Indian ink and colours in a fit of petulance. "It's no good,"
he exclaimed aloud; "I feel a perfect duffer this morning. I couldn't
even design a decent dog-kennel!"

Even as he spoke he became conscious of a presence in the room, and,
looking round, saw Fakrash the Jinnee standing at his elbow, smiling
down on him more benevolently than ever, and with a serene expectation
of being warmly welcomed and thanked, which made Horace rather ashamed
of his own inability to meet it.

"He's a thoroughly good-natured old chap," he thought,
self-reproachfully. "He means well, and I'm a beast not to feel more
glad to see him. And yet, hang it all! I can't have him popping in and
out of the office like a rabbit whenever the fancy takes him!"

"Peace be upon thee," said Fakrash. "Moderate the trouble of thy heart,
and impart thy difficulties to me."

"Oh, they're nothing, thanks," said Horace, feeling decidedly
embarrassed. "I got stuck over my work for the moment, and it worried me
a little--that's all."

"Then thou hast not yet received the gifts which I commanded should be
delivered at thy dwelling-place?"

"Oh, indeed I have!" replied Horace; "and--and I really don't know how
to thank you for them."

"A few trifling presents," answered the Jinnee, "and by no means suited
to thy dignity--yet the best in my power to bestow upon thee for the
time being."

"My dear sir, they simply overwhelm me with their magnificence! They're
beyond all price, and--and I've no idea what to do with such a
superabundance."

"A superfluity of good things is good," was the Jinnee's sententious
reply.

"Not in my particular case. I--I quite feel your goodness and
generosity; but, indeed, as I told you before, it's really impossible
for me to accept any such reward."

Fakrash's brows contracted slightly. "How sayest thou that it is
impossible--seeing that these things are already in thy possession?"

"I know," said Horace; "but--you won't be offended if I speak quite
plainly?"

"Art thou not even as a son to me, and can I be angered at any words of
thine?"

"Well," said Horace, with sudden hope, "honestly, then, I would very
much rather--if you're sure you don't mind--that you would take them all
back again."

"What? Dost thou demand that I, Fakrash-el-Aamash, should consent to
receive back the gifts I have bestowed? Are they, then, of so little
value in thy sight?"

"They're of too much value. If I took such a reward for--for a very
ordinary service, I should never be able to respect myself again."

"This is not the reasoning of an intelligent person," said the Jinnee,
coldly.

"If you think me a fool, I can't help it. I'm not an ungrateful fool, at
all events. But I feel very strongly that I can't keep these gifts of
yours."

"So thou wouldst have me break the oath which I swore to reward thee
fitly for thy kind action?"

"But you _have_ rewarded me already," said Horace, "by contriving that a
wealthy merchant should engage me to build him a residence. And--forgive
my plain speaking--if you truly desire my happiness (as I am sure you
do) you will relieve me of all these precious gems and merchandise,
because, to be frank, they will _not_ make me happy. On the contrary,
they are making me extremely uncomfortable."

"In the days of old," said Fakrash, "all men pursued wealth; nor could
any amass enough to satisfy his desires. Have riches, then, become so
contemptible in mortal eyes that thou findest them but an encumbrance?
Explain the matter."

Horace felt a natural delicacy in giving his real reasons. "I can't
answer for other men," he said. "All I know is that I've never been
accustomed to being rich, and I'd rather get used to it gradually, and
be able to feel that I owed it, as far as possible, to my own exertions.
For, as I needn't tell _you_, Mr. Fakrash, riches alone don't make any
fellow happy. You must have observed that they're apt to--well, to land
him in all kinds of messes and worries.... I'm talking like a confounded
copybook," he thought, "but I don't care how priggish I am if I can only
get my way!"

Fakrash was deeply impressed. "O young man of marvellous moderation!" he
cried. "Thy sentiments are not inferior to those of the Great Suleyman
himself (on whom be peace!). Yet even he doth not utterly despise them,
for he hath gold and ivory and precious stones in abundance. Nor
hitherto have I ever met a human being capable of rejecting them when
offered. But, since thou seemest sincere in holding that my poor and
paltry gifts will not advance thy welfare, and since I would do thee
good and not evil--be it even as thou wouldst. For excellently was it
said: 'The worth of a present depends not on itself, nor on the giver,
but on the receiver alone.'"

Horace could hardly believe that he had really prevailed. "It's
extremely good of you, sir," he said, "to take it so well. And if you
_could_ let that caravan call for them as soon as possible, it would be
a great convenience to me. I mean--er--the fact is, I'm expecting a few
friends to dine with me to-morrow, and, as my rooms are rather small at
the best of times, I don't quite know how I can manage to entertain
them at all unless something is done."

"It will be the easiest of actions," replied Fakrash; "therefore, have
no fear that, when the time cometh, thou wilt not be able to entertain
thy friends in a fitting manner. And for the caravan, it shall set out
without delay."

"By Jove, though, I'd forgotten one thing," said Horace: "I've locked up
the room where your presents are--they won't be able to get in without
the key."

"Against the servants of the Jinn neither bolts nor bars can prevail.
They shall enter therein and remove all that they brought thee, since it
is thy desire."

"Very many thanks," said Horace. "And you do _really_ understand that
I'm every bit as grateful as if I could keep the things? You see, I want
all my time and all my energies to complete the designs for this
building, which," he added gracefully, "I should never be in a position
to do at all, but for your assistance."

"On my arrival," said Fakrash, "I heard thee lamenting the difficulties
of the task; wherein do they consist?"

"Oh," said Horace, "it's a little difficult to please all the different
people concerned, and myself too. I want to make something of it that I
shall be proud of, and that will give me a reputation. It's a large
house, and there will be a good deal of work in it; but I shall manage
it all right."

"This is a great undertaking indeed," remarked the Jinnee, after he had
asked various by no means unintelligent questions and received the
answers. "But be persuaded that it shall all turn out most fortunately
and thou shalt obtain great renown. And now," he concluded, "I am
compelled to take leave of thee, for I am still without any certain
tidings of Suleyman."

"You mustn't let me keep you," said Horace, who had been on thorns for
some minutes lest Beevor should return and find him with his mysterious
visitor. "You see," he added instructively, "so long as you _will_
neglect your own much more important affairs to look after mine, you can
hardly expect to make _much_ progress, can you?"

"How excellent is the saying," replied the Jinnee: "'The time which is
spent in doing kindnesses, call it not wasted.'"

"Yes, that's very good," said Horace, feeling driven to silence this
maxim, if possible, with one of his own invention. "But _we_ have a
saying too--how does it go? Ah, I remember. 'It is possible for a
kindness to be more inconvenient than an injury.'"

"Marvellously gifted was he who discovered such a saying!" cried
Fakrash.

"I imagine," said Horace, "he learnt it from his own experience. By the
way, what place were you thinking of drawing--I mean trying--next for
Suleyman?"

"I purpose to repair to Nineveh, and inquire there."

"Capital," said Ventimore, with hearty approval, for he hoped that this
would take the Jinnee some little time. "Wonderful city, Nineveh, from
all I've heard--though not quite what it used to be, perhaps. Then
there's Babylon--you might go on there. And if you shouldn't hear of him
there, why not strike down into Central Africa, and do that thoroughly?
Or South America; it's a pity to lose any chance--you've never been to
South America yet?"

"I have not so much as heard of such a country, and how should Suleyman
be there?"

"Pardon me, I didn't say he _was_ there. All I meant to convey was, that
he's quite as likely to be there as anywhere else. But if you're going
to Nineveh first, you'd better lose no more time, for I've always
understood that it's rather an awkward place to get at--though probably
_you_ won't find it very difficult."

"I care not," said Fakrash, "though the search be long, for in travel
there are five advantages----"

"I know," interrupted Horace, "so don't stop to describe them now. I
should like to see you fairly started, and you really mustn't think it
necessary to break off your search again on my account, because, thanks
to you, I shall get on splendidly alone for the future--if you'll kindly
see that that merchandise is removed."

"Thine abode shall not be encumbered with it for another hour," said the
Jinnee. "O thou judicious one, in whose estimation wealth is of no
value, know that I have never encountered a mortal who pleased me as
thou hast; and moreover, be assured that such magnanimity as thine shall
not go without a recompense!"

"How often must I tell you," said Horace, in a glow of impatience, "that
I am already much more than recompensed? Now, my kind, generous old
friend," he added, with an emotion that was not wholly insincere, "the
time has come to bid you farewell--for ever. Let me picture you as
revisiting your former haunts, penetrating to quarters of the globe
(for, whether you are aware of it or not, this earth of ours _is_ a
globe) hitherto unknown to you, refreshing your mind by foreign travel
and the study of mankind--but never, never for a moment losing sight of
your main object, the eventual discovery of and reconciliation with
Suleyman (on whom be peace!). That is the greatest, the only happiness
you can give me now. Good-bye, and _bon voyage_!"

"May Allah never deprive thy friends of thy presence!" returned the
Jinnee, who was apparently touched by this exordium, "for truly thou art
a most excellent young man!"

And stepping back into the fireplace, he was gone in an instant.

Ventimore sank back in his chair with a sigh of relief. He had begun to
fear that the Jinnee never would take himself off, but he had gone at
last--and for good.

He was half ashamed of himself for feeling so glad, for Fakrash was a
good-natured old thing enough in his way. Only he _would_ overdo things:
he had no sense of proportion. "Why," thought Horace, "if a fellow
expressed a modest wish for a canary in a cage he's just the sort of old
Jinnee to bring him a whole covey of rocs in an aviary about ten times
the size of the Crystal Palace. However, he _does_ understand now that I
can't take anything more from him, and he isn't offended either, so
_that's_ all settled. Now I can set to work and knock off these plans in
peace and quietness."

But he had not done much before he heard sounds in the next room which
told him that Beevor had returned at last. He had been expected back
from the country for the last day or two, and it was fortunate that he
had delayed so long, thought Ventimore, as he went in to see him and to
tell him the unexpected piece of good fortune that he himself had met
with since they last met. It is needless to say that, in giving his
account, he abstained from any mention of the brass bottle or the
Jinnee, as unessential elements in his story.

Beevor's congratulations were quite as cordial as could be expected, as
soon as he fully understood that no hoax was intended. "Well, old man,"
he said, "I _am_ glad. I really am, you know. To think of a prize like
that coming to you the very first time! And you don't even know how this
Mr. Wackerbath came to hear of you--just happened to see your name up
outside and came in, I expect. Why, I dare say, if I hadn't chanced to
go away as I did--and about a couple of paltry two thousand pound
houses, too! Ah, well, I don't grudge you your luck, though it _does_
seem rather---- It was worth waiting for; you'll be cutting _me_ out
before long--if you don't make a mess of this job. I mean, you know, old
chap, if you don't go and give your City man a Gothic castle when what
he wants is something with plenty of plate-glass windows and a
Corinthian portico. That's the rock I see ahead of _you_. You mustn't
mind my giving you a word of warning!"

"Oh no," said Ventimore; "but I shan't give him either a Gothic castle
or plenty of plate-glass. I venture to think he'll be pleased with the
general idea as I'm working it out."

"Let's hope so," said Beevor. "If you get into any difficulty, you
know," he added, with a touch of patronage, "just you come to me."

"Thanks," said Horace, "I will. But I'm getting on very fairly at
present."

"I should rather like to see what you've made of it. I might be able to
give you a wrinkle here and there."

"It's awfully good of you, but I think I'd rather you didn't see the
plans till they're quite finished," said Horace. The truth was that he
was perfectly aware that the other would not be in sympathy with his
ideas; and Horace, who had just been suffering from a cold fit of
depression about his work, rather shrank from any kind of criticism.

"Oh, just as you please!" said Beevor, a little stiffly; "you always
_were_ an obstinate beggar. I've had a certain amount of experience, you
know, in my poor little pottering way, and I thought I might possibly
have saved you a cropper or two. But if you think you can manage better
alone--only don't get bolted with by one of those architectural hobbies
of yours, that's all."

"All right, old fellow. I'll ride my hobby on the curb," said Horace,
laughing, as he went back to his own office, where he found that all his
former certainty and enjoyment of his work had returned to him, and by
the end of the day he had made so much progress that his designs needed
only a few finishing touches to be complete enough for his client's
inspection.

Better still, on returning to his rooms that evening to change before
going to Kensington, he found that the admirable Fakrash had kept his
promise--every chest, sack, and bale had been cleared away.

"Them camels come back for the things this afternoon, sir," said Mrs.
Rapkin, "and it put me in a fluster at first, for I made sure you'd
locked your door and took the key. But I must have been
mistook--leastways, them Arabs got in somehow. I hope you meant
everything to go back?"

"Quite," said Horace; "I saw the--the person who sent them this morning,
and told him there was nothing I cared for enough to keep."

"And like his impidence sending you a lot o' rubbish like that on
approval--and on camels, too!" declared Mrs. Rapkin. "I'm sure I don't
know what them advertising firms will try next--pushing, _I_ call it."

Now that everything was gone, Horace felt a little natural regret and
doubt whether he need have been quite so uncompromising in his refusal
of the treasures. "I might have kept some of those tissues and things
for Sylvia," he thought; "and she loves pearls. And a prayer-carpet
would have pleased the Professor tremendously. But no, after all, it
wouldn't have done. Sylvia couldn't go about in pearls the size of new
potatoes, and the Professor would only have ragged me for more reckless
extravagance. Besides, if I'd taken any of the Jinnee's gifts, he might
keep on pouring more in, till I should be just where I was before--or
worse off, really, because I couldn't decently refuse them, then. So
it's best as it is."

And really, considering his temperament and the peculiar nature of his
position, it is not easy to see how he could have arrived at any other
conclusion.




CHAPTER VIII

BACHELOR'S QUARTERS


Horace was feeling particularly happy as he walked back the next evening
to Vincent Square. He had the consciousness of having done a good day's
work, for the sketch-plans for Mr. Wackerbath's mansion were actually
completed and despatched to his business address, while Ventimore now
felt a comfortable assurance that his designs would more than satisfy
his client.

But it was not that which made him so light of heart. That night his
rooms were to be honoured for the first time by Sylvia's presence. She
would tread upon his carpet, sit in his chairs, comment upon, and
perhaps even handle, his books and ornaments--and all of them would
retain something of her charm for ever after. If she only came! For even
now he could not quite believe that she really would; that some untoward
event would not make a point of happening to prevent her, as he
sometimes doubted whether his engagement was not too sweet and wonderful
to be true--or, at all events, to last.

As to the dinner, his mind was tolerably easy, for he had settled the
remaining details of the _menu_ with his landlady that morning, and he
could hope that without being so sumptuous as to excite the Professor's
wrath, it would still be not altogether unworthy--and what goods could
be rare and dainty enough?--to be set before Sylvia.

He would have liked to provide champagne, but he knew that wine would
savour of ostentation in the Professor's judgment, so he had contented
himself instead with claret, a sound vintage which he knew he could
depend upon. Flowers, he thought, were clearly permissible, and he had
called at a florist's on his way and got some chrysanthemums of palest
yellow and deepest terra-cotta, the finest he could see. Some of them
would look well on the centre of the table in an old Nankin
blue-and-white bowl he had; the rest he could arrange about the room:
there would just be time to see to all that before dressing.

Occupied with these thoughts, he turned into Vincent Square, which
looked vaster than ever with the murky haze, enclosed by its high
railings, and under a wide expanse of steel-blue sky, across which the
clouds were driving fast like ships in full sail scudding for harbour
before a storm. Against the mist below, the young and nearly leafless
trees showed flat, black profiles as of pressed seaweed, and the sky
immediately above the house-tops was tinged with a sullen red from miles
of lighted streets; from the river came the long-drawn tooting of tugs,
mingled with the more distant wail and hysterical shrieks of railway
engines on the Lambeth lines.

And now he reached the old semi-detached house in which he lodged, and
noticed for the first time how the trellis-work of the veranda made,
with the bared creepers and hanging baskets, a kind of decorative
pattern against the windows, which were suffused with a roseate glow
that looked warm and comfortable and hospitable. He wondered whether
Sylvia would notice it when she arrived.

He passed under the old wrought-iron arch that once held an oil-lamp,
and up a short but rather steep flight of steps, which led to a brick
porch built out at the side. Then he let himself in, and stood
spellbound with perplexed amazement,--for he was in a strange house.

In place of the modest passage with the yellow marble wall-paper, the
mahogany hat-stand, and the elderly barometer in a state of chronic
depression which he knew so well, he found an arched octagonal
entrance-hall with arabesques of blue, crimson, and gold, and
richly-embroidered hangings; the floor was marble, and from a shallow
basin of alabaster in the centre a perfumed fountain rose and fell with
a lulling patter.

"I must have mistaken the number," he thought, quite forgetting that his
latch-key had fitted, and he was just about to retreat before his
intrusion was discovered, when the hangings parted, and Mrs. Rapkin
presented herself, making so deplorably incongruous a figure in such
surroundings, and looking so bewildered and woebegone, that Horace, in
spite of his own increasing uneasiness, had some difficulty in keeping
his gravity.

"Oh, Mr. Ventimore, sir," she lamented; "whatever _will_ you go and do
next, I wonder? To think of your going and having the whole place done
up and altered out of knowledge like this, without a word of warning! If
any halterations were required, I _do_ think as me and Rapkin had the
right to be consulted."

Horace let all his chrysanthemums drop unheeded into the fountain. He
understood now: indeed, he seemed in some way to have understood almost
from the first, only he would not admit it even to himself.

The irrepressible Jinnee was at the bottom of this, of course. He
remembered now having made that unfortunate remark the day before about
the limited accommodation his rooms afforded.

Clearly Fakrash must have taken a mental note of it, and, with that
insatiable munificence which was one of his worst failings, had
determined, by way of a pleasant surprise, to entirely refurnish and
redecorate the apartments according to his own ideas.

It was extremely kind of him; it showed a truly grateful
disposition--"but, oh!" as Horace thought, in the bitterness of his
soul, "if he would only learn to let well alone and mind his own
business!"

However, the thing was done now, and he must accept the responsibility
for it, since he could hardly disclose the truth. "Didn't I mention I
was having some alterations made?" he said carelessly. "They've got the
work done rather sooner than I expected. Were--were they long over it?"

"I'm sure I can't tell you, sir, having stepped out to get some things I
wanted in for to-night; and Rapkin, he was round the corner at his
reading-room; and when I come back it was all done and the workmen gone
'ome; and how they could have finished such a job in the time beats me
altogether, for when we 'ad the men in to do the back kitchen they took
ten days over it."

"Well," said Horace, evading this point, "however they've done this,
they've done it remarkably well--you'll admit that, Mrs. Rapkin?"

"That's as may be sir," said Mrs. Rapkin, with a sniff, "but it ain't
_my_ taste, nor yet I don't think it will be Rapkin's taste when he
comes to see it."

It was not Ventimore's taste either, though he was not going to confess
it. "Sorry for that, Mrs. Rapkin," he said, "but I've no time to talk
about it now. I must rush upstairs and dress."

"Begging your pardon, sir, but that's a total unpossibility--for they've
been and took away the staircase.'

"Taken away the staircase? Nonsense!" cried Horace.

"So _I_ think, Mr. Ventimore--but it's what them men have done, and if
you don't believe me, come and see for yourself!"

She drew the hangings aside, and revealed to Ventimore's astonished gaze
a vast pillared hall with a lofty domed roof, from which hung several
lamps, diffusing a subdued radiance. High up in the wall, on his left,
were the two windows which he judged to have formerly belonged to his
sitting-room (for either from delicacy or inability, or simply because
it had not occurred to him, the Jinnee had not interfered with the
external structure), but the windows were now masked by a perforated
and gilded lattice, which accounted for the pattern Horace had noticed
from without. The walls were covered with blue-and-white Oriental tiles,
and a raised platform of alabaster on which were divans ran round two
sides of the hall, while the side opposite to him was pierced with
horseshoe-shaped arches, apparently leading to other apartments. The
centre of the marble floor was spread with costly rugs and piles of
cushions, their rich hues glowing through the gold with which they were
intricately embroidered.

"Well," said the unhappy Horace, scarcely knowing what he was saying,
"it--it all looks very _cosy_, Mrs. Rapkin."

"It's not for me to say, sir; but I should like to know where you
thought of dining?"

"Where?" said Horace. "Why, here, of course. There's plenty of room."

"There isn't a table left in the house," said Mrs. Rapkin; "so, unless
you'd wish the cloth laid on the floor----"

"Oh, there must be a table somewhere," said Horace, impatiently, "or you
can borrow one. Don't _make_ difficulties, Mrs. Rapkin. Rig up anything
you like.... Now I must be off and dress."

He got rid of her, and, on entering one of the archways, discovered a
smaller room, in cedar-wood encrusted with ivory and mother-o'-pearl,
which was evidently his bedroom. A gorgeous robe, stiff with gold and
glittering with ancient gems, was laid out for him--for the Jinnee had
thought of everything--but Ventimore, naturally, preferred his own
evening clothes.

"Mr. Rapkin!" he shouted, going to another arch that seemed to
communicate with the basement.

"Sir?" replied his landlord, who had just returned from his
"reading-room," and now appeared, without a tie and in his
shirt-sleeves, looking pale and wild, as was, perhaps, intelligible in
the circumstances. As he entered his unfamiliar marble halls he
staggered, and his red eyes rolled and his mouth gaped in a cod-like
fashion. "They've been at it 'ere, too, seemin'ly," he remarked huskily.

"There have been a few changes," said Horace, quietly, "as you can see.
You don't happen to know where they've put my dress-clothes, do you?"

"I don't 'appen to know where they've put nothink. Your dress clothes?
Why, I dunno where they've bin and put our little parler where me and
Maria 'ave set of a hevenin' all these years regular. I dunno where
they've put the pantry, nor yet the bath-room, with 'ot and cold water
laid on at my own expense. And you arsk me to find your hevenin' soot! I
consider, sir, I consider that a unwall--that a most unwarrant-terrible
liberty have bin took at my expense."

"My good man, don't talk rubbish!" said Horace.

"I'm talking to you about what _I know_, and I assert that an
Englishman's 'ome is his cashle, and nobody's got the right when his
backsh turned to go and make a 'Ummums of it. Not _nobody_ 'asn't!"

"Make a _what_ of it?" cried Ventimore.

"A 'Ummums--that's English, ain't it? A bloomin' Turkish baths! Who do
you suppose is goin' to take apartments furnished in this 'ere
ridic'loush style? What am I goin' to say to my landlord? It'll about
ruing me, this will; and after you bein' a lodger 'ere for five year and
more, and regarded by me and Maria in the light of one of the family.
It's 'ard--it's damned 'ard!"

"Now, look here," said Ventimore, sharply--for it was obvious that Mr.
Rapkin's studies had been lightened by copious refreshment--"pull
yourself together, man, and listen to me."

"I respeckfully decline to pull myshelf togerrer f'r anybody livin',"
said Mr. Rapkin, with a noble air. "I shtan' 'ere upon my dignity as a
man, sir. I shay, I shtand 'ere upon----" Here he waved his hand, and
sat down suddenly upon the marble floor.

"You can stand on anything you like--or can," said Horace; "but hear
what I've got to say. The--the people who made all these alterations
went beyond my instructions. I never wanted the house interfered with
like this. Still, if your landlord doesn't see that its value is
immensely improved, he's a fool, that's all. Anyway, I'll take care
_you_ shan't suffer. If I have to put everything back in its former
state, I will, at my own expense. So don't bother any more about
_that_."

"You're a gen'l'man, Mr. Ventimore," said Rapkin, cautiously regaining
his feet. "There's no mishtaking a gen'l'man. _I'm_ a gen'l'man."

"Of course you are," said Horace genially, "and I'll tell you how you're
going to show it. You're going straight downstairs to get your good wife
to pour some cold water over your head; and then you will finish
dressing, see what you can do to get a table of some sort and lay it for
dinner, and be ready to announce my friends when they arrive, and wait
afterwards. Do you see?"

"That will be all ri', Mr. Ventimore," said Rapkin, who was not far gone
enough to be beyond understanding or obeying. "You leave it entirely to
me. I'll unnertake that your friends shall be made comforrable, perfelly
comforrable. I've lived as butler in the besht, the mosht ecxlu--most
arishto--you know the sort o' fam'lies I'm tryin' to r'member--and--and
everything was always all ri', and _I_ shall be all ri' in a few
minutes."

With this assurance he stumbled downstairs, leaving Horace relieved to
some extent. Rapkin would be sober enough after his head had been under
the tap for a few minutes, and in any case there would be the hired
waiter to rely upon.

If he could only find out where his evening clothes were! He returned to
his room and made another frantic search--but they were nowhere to be
found; and as he could not bring himself to receive his guests in his
ordinary morning costume--which the Professor would probably construe as
a deliberate slight, and which would certainly seem a solecism in Mrs.
Futvoye's eyes, if not in her daughter's--he decided to put on the
Eastern robes, with the exception of a turban, which he could not manage
to wind round his head.

Thus arrayed he re-entered the domed hall, where he was annoyed to find
that no attempt had been made as yet to prepare a dinner-table, and he
was just looking forlornly round for a bell when Rapkin appeared. He had
apparently followed Horace's advice, for his hair looked wet and sleek,
and he was comparatively sober.

"This is too bad!" cried Horace; "my friends may be here at any moment
now--and nothing done. You don't propose to wait at table like that, do
you?" he added, as he noted the man's overcoat and the comforter round
his throat.

"I do not propose to wait in any garments whatsoever," said Rapkin; "I'm
a-goin' out, I am."

"Very well," said Horace; "then send the waiter up--I suppose he's
come?"

"He come--but he went away again--I told him as he wouldn't be
required."

"You told him that!" Horace said angrily, and then controlled himself.
"Come, Rapkin, be reasonable. You can't really mean to leave your wife
to cook the dinner, and serve it too!"

"She ain't intending to do neither; she've left the house already."

"You must fetch her back," cried Horace. "Good heavens, man, _can't_ you
see what a fix you're leaving me in? My friends have started long
ago--it's too late to wire to them, or make any other arrangements."

There was a knock, as he spoke, at the front door; and odd enough was
the familiar sound of the cast-iron knocker in that Arabian hall.

"There they are!" he said, and the idea of meeting them at the door and
proposing an instant adjournment to a restaurant occurred to him--till
he suddenly recollected that he would have to change and try to find
some money, even for that. "For the last time, Rapkin," he cried in
despair, "do you mean to tell me there's no dinner ready?"

"Oh," said Rapkin, "there's dinner right enough, and a lot o' barbarious
furriners downstairs a cookin' of it--that's what broke Maria's 'art--to
see it all took out of her 'ands, after the trouble she'd gone to."

"But I must have somebody to wait," exclaimed Horace.

"You've got waiters enough, as far as that goes. But if you expect a
hordinary Christian man to wait along of a lot o' narsty niggers, and be
at their beck and call, you're mistook, sir, for I'm going to sleep the
night at my brother-in-law's and take his advice, he bein' a doorkeeper
at a solicitor's orfice and knowing the law, about this 'ere business,
and so I wish you a good hevening, and 'oping your dinner will be to
your liking and satisfaction."

He went out by the farther archway, while from the entrance-hall Horace
could hear voices he knew only too well. The Futvoyes had come; well, at
all events, it seemed that there would be something for them to eat,
since Fakrash, in his anxiety to do the thing thoroughly, had furnished
both the feast and attendance himself--but who was there to announce the
guests? Where were these waiters Rapkin had spoken of? Ought he to go
and bring in his visitors himself?

These questions answered themselves the next instant, for, as he stood
there under the dome, the curtains of the central arch were drawn with a
rattle, and disclosed a double line of tall slaves in rich raiment,
their onyx eyes rolling and their teeth flashing in their chocolate-hued
countenances, as they salaamed.

Between this double line stood Professor and Mrs. Futvoye and Sylvia,
who had just removed their wraps and were gazing in undisguised
astonishment on the splendours which met their view.

Horace advanced to receive them; he felt he was in for it now, and the
only course left him was to put as good a face as he could on the
matter, and trust to luck to pull him through without discovery or
disaster.




CHAPTER IX

"PERSICOS ODI, PUER, APPARATUS"


"So you've found your way here at last?" said Horace, as he shook hands
heartily with the Professor and Mrs. Futvoye. "I can't tell you how
delighted I am to see you."

As a matter of fact, he was very far from being at ease, which made him
rather over-effusive, but he was determined that, if he could help it,
he would not betray the slightest consciousness of anything _bizarre_ or
unusual in his domestic arrangements.

"And these," said Mrs. Futvoye, who was extremely stately in black,
with old lace and steel embroidery--"these are the bachelor lodgings you
were so modest about! Really," she added, with a humorous twinkle in her
shrewd eyes, "you young men seem to understand how to make yourselves
comfortable--don't they, Anthony?"

"They do, indeed," said the Professor, dryly, though it manifestly cost
him some effort to conceal his appreciation. "To produce such results as
these must, if I mistake not, have entailed infinite research--and
considerable expense."

"No," said Horace, "no. You--you'd be surprised if you knew how little."

"I should have imagined," retorted the Professor, "that _any_ outlay on
apartments which I presume you do not contemplate occupying for an
extended period must be money thrown away. But, doubtless, you know
best."

"But your rooms are quite wonderful, Horace!" cried Sylvia, her charming
eyes dilating with admiration. "And where, _where_ did you get that
magnificent dressing-gown? I never saw anything so lovely in my life!"

She herself was lovely enough in a billowy, shimmering frock of a
delicate apple-green hue, her only ornament a deep-blue Egyptian scarab
with spread wings, which was suspended from her neck by a slender gold
chain.

"I--I ought to apologise for receiving you in this costume," said
Horace, with embarrassment; "but the fact is, I couldn't find my evening
clothes anywhere, so--so I put on the first things that came to hand."

"It is hardly necessary," said the Professor, conscious of being
correctly clad, and unconscious that his shirt-front was bulging and his
long-eared white tie beginning to work up towards his left jaw--"hardly
necessary to offer any apology for the simplicity of your costume--which
is entirely in keeping with the--ah--strictly Oriental character of your
interior."

"_I_ feel dreadfully out of keeping!" said Sylvia, "for there's nothing
in the least Oriental about _me_--unless it's my scarab--and he's I
don't know how many centuries behind the time, poor dear!"

"If you said 'thousands of years,' my dear," corrected the Professor,
"you would be more accurate. That scarab was taken out of a tomb of the
thirteenth dynasty."

"Well, I'm sure he'd rather be where he is," said Sylvia, and Ventimore
entirely agreed with her. "Horace, I _must_ look at everything. How
clever and original of you to transform an ordinary London house into
this!"

"Oh, well, you see," explained Horace, "it--it wasn't exactly done by
me."

"Whoever did it," said the Professor, "must have devoted considerable
study to Eastern art and architecture. May I ask the name of the firm
who executed the alterations?"

"I really couldn't tell you, sir," answered Horace, who was beginning
to understand how very bad a _mauvais quart d'heure_ can be.

"You can't tell me!" exclaimed the Professor. "You order these
extensive, and _I_ should say expensive, decorations, and you don't know
the firm you selected to carry them out!"

"Of course I _know_," said Horace, "only I don't happen to remember at
this moment. Let me see, now. Was it Liberty? No, I'm almost certain it
wasn't Liberty. It might have been Maple, but I'm not sure. Whoever did
do it, they were marvellously cheap."

"I am glad to hear it," said the Professor, in his most unpleasant tone.
"Where is your dining-room?"

"Why, I rather think," said Horace, helplessly, as he saw a train of
attendants laying a round cloth on the floor, "I rather think _this_ is
the dining-room."

"You appear to be in some doubt?" said the Professor.

"I leave it to them--it depends where they choose to lay the cloth,"
said Horace. "Sometimes in one place; sometimes in another. There's a
great charm in uncertainty," he faltered.

"Doubtless," said the Professor.

By this time two of the slaves, under the direction of a tall and
turbaned black, had set a low ebony stool, inlaid with silver and
tortoiseshell in strange devices, on the round carpet, when other
attendants followed with a circular silver tray containing covered
dishes, which they placed on the stool and salaamed.

"Your--ah--groom of the chambers," said the Professor, "seems to have
decided that we should dine here. I observe they are making signs to you
that the food is on the table."

"So it is," said Ventimore. "Shall we sit down?"

"But, my dear Horace," said Mrs. Futvoye, "your butler has forgotten the
chairs."

"You don't appear to realise, my dear," said the Professor, "that in
such an interior as this chairs would be hopelessly incongruous."

"I'm afraid there aren't any," said Horace, for there was nothing but
four fat cushions. "Let's sit down on these," he proposed. "It--it's
more fun!"

"At my time of life," said the Professor, irritably, as he let himself
down on the plumpest cushion, "such fun as may be derived from eating
one's meals on the floor fails to appeal to my sense of humour. However,
I admit that it is thoroughly Oriental."

"_I_ think it's delightful," said Sylvia; "ever so much nicer than a
stiff, conventional dinner-party."

"One may be unconventional," remarked her father, "without escaping the
penalty of stiffness. Go away, sir! go away!" he added snappishly, to
one of the slaves, who was attempting to pour water over his hands.
"Your servant, Ventimore, appears to imagine that I go out to dinner
without taking the trouble to wash my hands previously. This, I may
mention, is _not_ the case."

"It's only an Eastern ceremony, Professor," said Horace.

"I am perfectly well aware of what is customary in the East," retorted
the Professor; "it does not follow that such--ah--hygienic precautions
are either necessary or desirable at a Western table."

Horace made no reply; he was too much occupied in gazing blankly at the
silver dish-covers and wondering what in the world might be underneath;
nor was his perplexity relieved when the covers were removed, for he was
quite at a loss to guess how he was supposed to help the contents
without so much as a fork.

The chief attendant, however, solved that difficulty by intimating in
pantomime that the guests were expected to use their fingers.

Sylvia accomplished this daintily and with intense amusement, but her
father and mother made no secret of their repugnance. "If I were dining
in the desert with a Sheik, sir," observed the Professor, "I should, I
hope, know how to conform to his habits and prejudices. Here, in the
heart of London, I confess all this strikes me as a piece of needless
pedantry."

"I'm very sorry," said Horace; "I'd have some knives and forks if I
could--but I'm afraid these fellows don't even understand what they are,
so it's useless to order any. We--we must rough it a little, that's all.
I hope that--er--fish is all right, Professor?"

He did not know precisely what kind of fish it was, but it was fried in
oil of sesame and flavoured with a mixture of cinnamon and ginger, and
the Professor did not appear to be making much progress with it.
Ventimore himself would have infinitely preferred the original cod and
oyster sauce, but that could not be helped now.

"Thank you," said the Professor, "it is curious--but characteristic. Not
_any_ more, thank you."

Horace could only trust that the next course would be more of a success.
It was a dish of mutton, stewed with peaches, jujubes and sugar, which
Sylvia declared was delicious. Her parents made no comment.

"Might I ask for something to drink?" said the Professor, presently;
whereupon a cupbearer poured him a goblet of iced sherbet perfumed with
conserve of violets.

"I'm very sorry, my dear fellow," he said, after sipping it, "but if I
drink this I shall be ill all next day. If I might have a glass of
wine----"

Another slave instantly handed him a cup of wine, which he tasted and
set down with a wry face and a shudder. Horace tried some afterwards,
and was not surprised. It was a strong, harsh wine, in which goatskin
and resin struggled for predominance.

"It's an old and, I make no doubt, a fine wine," observed the Professor,
with studied politeness, "but I fancy it must have suffered in
transportation. I really think that, with my gouty tendency, a little
whisky and Apollinaris would be better for me--if you keep such
occidental fluids in the house?"

Horace felt convinced that it would be useless to order the slaves to
bring whisky or Apollinaris, which were of course, unknown in the
Jinnee's time, so he could do nothing but apologise for their absence.

"No matter," said the Professor; "I am not so thirsty that I cannot wait
till I get home."

It was some consolation that both Sylvia and her mother commended the
sherbet, and even appreciated--or were so obliging as to say they
appreciated--the _entrée_, which consisted of rice and mincemeat wrapped
in vine-leaves, and certainly was not appetising in appearance, besides
being difficult to dispose of gracefully.

It was followed by a whole lamb fried in oil, stuffed with pounded
pistachio nuts, pepper, nutmeg, and coriander seeds, and liberally
besprinkled with rose-water and musk.

Only Horace had sufficient courage to attack the lamb--and he found
reason to regret it. Afterwards came fowls stuffed with raisins,
parsley, and crumbled bread, and the banquet ended with pastry of weird
forms and repellent aspect.

"I hope," said Horace, anxiously, "you don't find this Eastern cookery
very--er--unpalatable?"--he himself was feeling distinctly unwell: "it's
rather a change from the ordinary routine."

"I have made a truly wonderful dinner, thank you," replied the
Professor, not, it is to be feared, without intention. "Even in the East
I have eaten nothing approaching this."

"But where did your landlady pick up this extraordinary cooking, my dear
Horace?" said Mrs. Futvoye. "I thought you said she was merely a plain
cook. Has she ever lived in the East?"

"Not exactly _in_ the East," exclaimed Horace; "not what you would call
_living_ there. The fact is," he continued, feeling that he was in
danger of drivelling, and that he had better be as candid as he could,
"this dinner _wasn't_ cooked by her. She--she was obliged to go away
quite suddenly. So the dinner was all sent in by--by a sort of
contractor, you know. He supplies the whole thing, waiters and all."

"I was thinking," said the Professor, "that for a bachelor--an _engaged_
bachelor--you seemed to maintain rather a large establishment."

"Oh, they're only here for the evening, sir," said Horace. "Capital
fellows--more picturesque than the local greengrocer--and they don't
breathe on the top of your head."

"They're perfect dears, Horace," remarked Sylvia; "only--well, just a
_little_ creepy-crawly to look at!"

"It would ill become me to criticise the style and method of our
entertainment," put in the Professor, acidly, "otherwise I might be
tempted to observe that it scarcely showed that regard for economy which
I should have----"

"Now, Anthony," put in his wife, "don't let us have any fault-finding.
I'm sure Horace has done it all delightfully--yes, delightfully; and
even if he _has_ been just a little extravagant, it's not as if he was
obliged to be as economical _now_, you know!"

"My dear," said the Professor, "I have yet to learn that the prospect of
an increased income in the remote future is any justification for
reckless profusion in the present."

"If you only knew," said Horace, "you wouldn't call it profusion.
It--it's not at all the dinner I meant it to be, and I'm afraid it
wasn't particularly nice--but it's certainly not expensive."

"Expensive is, of course, a very relative term. But I think I have the
right to ask whether this is the footing on which you propose to begin
your married life?"

It was an extremely awkward question, as the reader will perceive. If
Ventimore replied--as he might with truth--that he had no intention
whatever of maintaining his wife in luxury such as that, he stood
convicted of selfish indulgence as a bachelor; if, on the other hand, he
declared that he _did_ propose to maintain his wife in the same
fantastic and exaggerated splendour as the present, it would certainly
confirm her father's disbelief in his prudence and economy.

And it was that egregious old ass of a Jinnee, as Horace thought, with
suppressed rage, who had let him in for all this, and who was now far
beyond all remonstrance or reproach!

Before he could bring himself to answer the question, the attendants had
noiselessly removed the tray and stool, and were handing round rosewater
in a silver ewer and basin, the character of which, luckily or
otherwise, turned the Professor's inquisitiveness into a different
channel.

"These are not bad--really not bad at all," he said, inspecting the
design. "Where did you manage to pick them up?"

"I didn't," said Horace; "they're provided by the--the person who
supplies the dinner."

"Can you give me his address?" said the Professor, scenting a bargain;
"because really, you know, these things are probably antiques--much too
good to be used for business purposes."

"I'm wrong," said Horace, lamely; "these particular things are--are lent
by an eccentric Oriental gentleman, as a great favour."

"Do I know him? Is he a collector of such things?"

"You wouldn't have met him; he--he's lived a very retired life of late."

"I should very much like to see his collection. If you could give me a
letter of introduction----"

"No," said Horace, in a state of prickly heat; "it wouldn't be any use.
His collection is never shown. He--he's a most peculiar man. And just
now he's abroad."

"Ah! pardon me if I've been indiscreet; but I concluded from what you
said that this--ah--banquet was furnished by a professional caterer."

"Oh, the banquet? Yes, _that_ came from the Stores," said Horace,
mendaciously. "The--the Oriental Cookery Department. They've just
started it, you know; so--so I thought I'd give them a trial. But it's
not what I call properly organised yet."

The slaves were now, with low obeisances, inviting them to seat
themselves on the divan which lined part of the hall.

"Ha!" said the Professor, as he rose from his cushion, cracking audibly,
"so we're to have our coffee and what not over there, hey?... Well, my
boy, I shan't be sorry, I confess, to have something to lean my back
against--and a cigar, a mild cigar, will--ah--aid digestion. You _do_
smoke here?"

"Smoke?" said Horace, "Why, of course! All over the place. Here," he
said, clapping his hands, which brought an obsequious slave instantly to
his side; "just bring coffee and cigars, will you?"

The slave rolled his brandy-ball eyes in obvious perplexity.

"Coffee," said Horace; "you must know what coffee is. And cigarettes.
Well, _chibouks_, then--'hubble-bubbles'--if that's what you call them."

But the slave clearly did not understand, and it suddenly struck Horace
that, since 'tobacco and coffee were not introduced, even in the East,
till long after the Jinnee's time, he, as the founder of the feast,
would naturally be unaware how indispensable they had become at the
present day.

"I'm really awfully sorry," he said; "but they don't seem to have
provided any. I shall speak to the manager about it. And, unfortunately,
I don't know where my own cigars are."

"It's of no consequence," said the Professor, with the sort of stoicism
that minds very much. "I am a moderate smoker at best, and Turkish
coffee, though delicious, is apt to keep me awake. But if you could let
me have a look at that brass bottle you got at poor Collingham's sale, I
should be obliged to you."

Horace had no idea where it was then, nor could he, until the Professor
came to the rescue with a few words of Arabic, manage to make the slaves
comprehend what he wished them to find.

At length, however, two of them appeared, bearing the brass bottle with
every sign of awe, and depositing it at Ventimore's feet.

Professor Futvoye, after wiping and adjusting his glasses, proceeded to
examine the vessel. "It certainly is a most unusual type of brassware,"
he said, "as unique in its way as the silver ewer and basin; and, as you
thought, there does seem to be something resembling an inscription on
the cap, though in this dim light it is almost impossible to be sure."

While he was poring over it, Horace seated himself on the divan by
Sylvia's side, hoping for one of the whispered conversations permitted
to affianced lovers; he had pulled through the banquet somehow, and on
the whole he felt thankful things had not gone off worse. The noiseless
and uncanny attendants, whom he did not know whether to regard as
Efreets, or demons, or simply illusions, but whose services he had no
wish to retain, had all withdrawn. Mrs. Futvoye was peacefully
slumbering, and her husband was in a better humour than he had been all
the evening.

Suddenly from behind the hangings of one of the archways came strange,
discordant sounds, barbaric janglings and thumpings, varied by yowls as
of impassioned cats.

Sylvia drew involuntarily closer to Horace; her mother woke with a
start, and the Professor looked up from the brass bottle with returning
irritation.

"What's this? What's this?" he demanded; "some fresh surprise in store
for us?"

It was quite as much of a surprise for Horace, but he was spared the
humiliation of owning it by the entrance of some half-dozen dusky
musicians swathed in white and carrying various strangely fashioned
instruments, with which they squatted down in a semi-circle by the
opposite wall, and began to twang, and drub, and squall with the
complacent cacophony of an Eastern orchestra. Clearly Fakrash was
determined that nothing should be wanting to make the entertainment a
complete success.

"What a very extraordinary noise!" said Mrs. Futvoye; "surely they can't
mean it for music?"

"Yes, they do," said Horace; "it--it's really more harmonious than it
sounds--you have to get accustomed to the--er--notation. When you do,
it's rather soothing than otherwise."

"I dare say," said the poor lady. "And do _they_ come from the Stores,
too?"

"No," said Horace, with a fine assumption of candour, "they don't; they
come from--the Arab Encampment at Earl's Court--parties and _fêtes_
attended, you know. But they play _here_ for nothing; they--they want to
get their name known, you see; very deserving and respectable set of
fellows."

"My dear Horace!" remarked Mrs. Futvoye, "if they expect to get
engagements for parties and so on, they really ought to try and learn a
tune of _some_ sort."

"I understand, Horace," whispered Sylvia, "it's very naughty of you to
have gone to all this trouble and expense (for, of course, it _has_ cost
you a lot) just to please us; but, whatever, dad may say, I love you all
the better for doing it!"

And her hand stole softly into his, and he felt that he could forgive
Fakrash everything, even--even the orchestra.

But there was something unpleasantly spectral about their shadowy forms,
which showed in grotesquely baggy and bulgy shapes in the uncertain
light. Some of them wore immense and curious white head-dresses, which
gave them the appearance of poulticed thumbs; and they all went on
scraping and twiddling and caterwauling with a doleful monotony that
Horace felt must be getting on his guests' nerves, as it certainly was
on his own.

He did not know how to get rid of them, but he sketched a kind of
gesture in the air, intended to intimate that, while their efforts had
afforded the keenest pleasure to the company generally, they were
unwilling to monopolise them any longer, and the artists were at liberty
to retire.

Perhaps there is no art more liable to misconstruction than pantomime;
certainly, Ventimore's efforts in this direction were misunderstood, for
the music became wilder, louder, more aggressively and abominably out of
tune--and then a worse thing happened.

For the curtains separated, and, heralded by sharp yelps from the
performers, a female figure floated into the hall and began to dance
with a slow and sinuous grace.

Her beauty, though of a pronounced Oriental type, was unmistakable, even
in the subdued light which fell on her; her diaphanous robe indicated a
faultless form; her dark tresses were braided with sequins; she had the
long, lustrous eyes, the dusky cheeks artificially whitened, and the
fixed scarlet smile of the Eastern dancing-girl of all time.

And she paced the floor with her tinkling feet, writhing and undulating
like some beautiful cobra, while the players worked themselves up to yet
higher and higher stages of frenzy.

Ventimore, as he sat there looking helplessly on, felt a return of his
resentment against the Jinnee. It was really too bad of him; he ought,
at his age, to have known better!

Not that there was anything objectionable in the performance itself; but
still, it was _not_ the kind of entertainment for such an occasion.
Horace wished now he had mentioned to Fakrash who the guests were whom
he expected, and then perhaps even the Jinnee would have exercised more
tact in his arrangements.

"And does this girl come from Earl's Court?" inquired Mrs. Futvoye, who
was now thoroughly awake.

"Oh dear, no," said Horace; "I engaged _her_ at--at Harrod's--the
Entertainment Bureau. They told me there she was rather good--struck out
a line of her own, don't you know. But perfectly correct; she--she only
does this to support an invalid aunt."

These statements were, as he felt even in making them, not only
gratuitous, but utterly unconvincing, but he had arrived at that
condition in which a man discovers with terror the unsuspected amount of
mendacity latent in his system.

"I should have thought there were other ways of supporting invalid
aunts," remarked Mrs. Futvoye. "What is this young lady's name?"

"Tinkler," said Horace, on the spur of the moment. "Miss Clementine
Tinkler."

"But surely she is a foreigner?"

"Mademoiselle, I ought to have said. And Tinkla--with an 'a,' you know.
I believe her mother was of Arabian extraction--but I really don't
know," explained Horace, conscious that Sylvia had withdrawn her hand
from his, and was regarding him with covert anxiety.

"I really _must_ put a stop to this," he thought.

"You're getting bored by all this, darling," he said aloud; "so am I.
I'll tell them to go." And he rose and held out his hand as a sign that
the dance should cease.

It ceased at once; but, to his unspeakable horror, the dancer crossed
the floor with a swift jingling rush, and sank in a gauzy heap at his
feet, seizing his hand in both hers and covering it with kisses, while
she murmured speeches in some tongue unknown to him.

"Is this a usual feature in Miss Tinkla's entertainments, may I ask?"
said Mrs. Futvoye, bristling with not unnatural indignation.

"I really don't know," said the unhappy Horace; "I can't make out what
she's saying."

"If I understand her rightly," said the Professor, "she is addressing
you as the 'light of her eyes and the vital spirit of her heart.'"

"Oh!" said Horace, "she's quite mistaken, you know. It--it's the
emotional artist temperament--they don't _mean_ anything by it. My--my
dear young lady," he added, "you've danced most delightfully, and I'm
sure we're all most deeply indebted to you; but we won't detain you any
longer. Professor," he added, as she made no offer to rise, "_will_ you
kindly explain to them in Arabic that I should be obliged by their going
at once?"

The Professor said a few words, which had the desired effect. The girl
gave a little scream and scudded through the archway, and the musicians
seized their instruments and scuttled after her.

"I am so sorry," said Horace, whose evening seemed to him to have been
chiefly spent in apologies; "it's not at all the kind of entertainment
one would expect from a place like Whiteley's."

"By no means," agreed the Professor; "but I understood you to say Miss
Tinkla was recommended to you by Harrod's?"

"Very likely, sir," said Horace; "but that doesn't affect the case. I
shouldn't expect it from _them_."

"Probably they don't know how shamelessly that young person conducts
herself," said Mrs. Futvoye. "And I think it only right that they should
be told."

"I shall complain, of course," said Horace. "I shall put it very
strongly."

"A protest would have more weight coming from a woman," said Mrs.
Futvoye; "and, as a shareholder in the company, I shall feel bound----"

"No, I wouldn't," said Horace; "in fact, you mustn't. For, now I come to
think of it, she didn't come from Harrod's, after all, or Whiteley's
either."

"Then perhaps you will be good enough to inform us where she _did_ come
from?"

"I would if I knew," said Horace; "but I don't."

"What!" cried the Professor, sharply, "do you mean to say you can't
account for the existence of a dancing-girl who--in my daughter's
presence--kisses your hand and addresses you by endearing epithets?"

"Oriental metaphor!" said Horace. "She was a little overstrung. Of
course, if I had had any idea she would make such a scene as that----
Sylvia," he broke off, "_you_ don't doubt me?"

"No, Horace," said Sylvia, simply, "I'm sure you must have _some_
explanation--only I do think it would be better if you gave it."

"If I _told_ you the truth," said Horace, slowly, "you would none of you
believe me!"

"Then you admit," put in the Professor, "that hitherto you have _not_
been telling the truth?"

"Not as invariably as I could have wished," Horace confessed.

"So I suspected. Then, unless you can bring yourself to be perfectly
candid, you can hardly wonder at our asking you to consider your
engagement as broken off?"

"Broken off!" echoed Horace. "Sylvia, you won't give me up! You _know_ I
wouldn't do anything unworthy of you!"

"I'm certain that you can't have done anything which would make me love
you one bit the less if I knew it. So why not be quite open with us?"

"Because, darling," said Horace, "I'm in such a fix that it would only
make matters worse."

"In that case," said the Professor, "and as it is already rather late,
perhaps you will allow one of your numerous retinue to call a
four-wheeler?"

Horace clapped his hands, but no one answered the summons, and he could
not find any of the slaves in the antechamber.

"I'm afraid all the servants have left," he explained; and it is to be
feared he would have added that they were all obliged to return to the
contractor by eleven, only he caught the Professor's eye and decided
that he had better refrain. "If you will wait here, I'll go out and
fetch a cab," he added.

"There is no occasion to trouble you," said the Professor; "my wife and
daughter have already got their things on, and we will walk until we
find a cab. Now, Mr. Ventimore, we will bid you good-night and good-bye.
For, after what has happened, you will, I trust, have the good taste to
discontinue your visits and make no attempt to see Sylvia again."

"Upon my honour," protested Horace, "I have done nothing to warrant you
in shutting your doors against me."

"I am unable to agree with you. I have never thoroughly approved of your
engagement, because, as I told you at the time, I suspected you of
recklessness in money matters. Even in accepting your invitation
to-night I warned you, as you may remember, not to make the occasion an
excuse for foolish extravagance. I come here, and find you in apartments
furnished and decorated (as you informed us) by yourself, and on a scale
which would be prodigal in a millionaire. You have a suite of retainers
which (except for their nationality and imperfect discipline) a prince
might envy. You provide a banquet of--hem!--delicacies which must have
cost you infinite trouble and unlimited expense--this, after I had
expressly stipulated for a quiet family dinner! Not content with that,
you procure for our diversion Arab music and dancing of a--of a highly
recondite character. I should be unworthy of the name of father, sir,
if I were to entrust my only daughter's happiness to a young man with so
little common sense, so little self-restraint. And she will understand
my motives and obey my wishes."

"You're right, Professor, according to your lights," admitted Horace.
"And yet--confound it all!--you're utterly wrong, too!"

"Oh, Horace," cried Sylvia; "if you had only listened to dad, and not
gone to all this foolish, foolish expense, we might have been so happy!"

"But I have gone to no expense. All this hasn't cost me a penny!"

"Ah, there _is_ some mystery! Horace, if you love me, you will
explain--here, now, before it's too late!"

"My darling," groaned Horace, "I would, like a shot, if I thought it
would be of the least use!"

"Hitherto," said the Professor, "you cannot be said to have been happy
in your explanations--and I should advise you not to venture on any
more. Good-night, once more. I only wish it were possible, without
needless irony, to make the customary acknowledgments for a pleasant
evening."

Mrs. Futvoye had already hurried her daughter away, and, though she had
left her husband to express his sentiments unaided, she made it
sufficiently clear that she entirely agreed with them.

Horace stood in the outer hall by the fountain, in which his drowned
chrysanthemums were still floating, and gazed in stupefied despair after
his guests as they went down the path to the gate. He knew only too well
that they would never cross his threshold, nor he theirs, again.

Suddenly he came to himself with a start. "I'll try it!" he cried. "I
can't and won't stand this!" And he rushed after them bareheaded.

"Professor!" he said breathlessly, as he caught him up, "one moment. On
second thoughts, I _will_ tell you my secret, if you will promise me a
patient hearing."

"The pavement is hardly the place for confidences," replied the
Professor, "and, if it were, your costume is calculated to attract more
remark than is desirable. My wife and daughter have gone on--if you will
permit me, I will overtake them--I shall be at home to-morrow morning,
should you wish to see me."

"No--to-night, to-night!" urged Horace. "I can't sleep in that infernal
place with this on my mind. Put Mrs. Futvoye and Sylvia into a cab,
Professor, and come back. It's not late, and I won't keep you long--but
for Heaven's sake, let me tell you my story at once."

Probably the Professor was not without some curiosity on the subject; at
all events he yielded. "Very well," he said, "go into the house and I
will rejoin you presently. Only remember," he added, "that I shall
accept no statement without the fullest proof. Otherwise you will merely
be wasting your time and mine."

"Proof!" thought Horace, gloomily, as he returned to his Arabian halls,
"The only decent proof I could produce would be old Fakrash, and he's
not likely to turn up again--especially now I want him."

A little later the Professor returned, having found a cab and despatched
his women-folk home. "Now, young man," he said, as he unwound his
wrapper and seated himself on the divan by Horace's side, "I can give
you just ten minutes to tell your story in, so let me beg you to make it
as brief and as comprehensible as you can."

It was not exactly an encouraging invitation in the circumstances, but
Horace took his courage in both hands and told him everything, just as
it had happened.

"And that's your story?" said the Professor, after listening to the
narrative with the utmost attention, when Horace came to the end.

"That's my story, sir," said Horace. "And I hope it has altered your
opinion of me."

"It has," replied the Professor, in an altered tone; "it has indeed.
Yours is a sad case--a very sad case."

"It's rather awkward, isn't it? But I don't mind so long as you
understand. And you'll tell Sylvia--as much as you think proper?"

"Yes--yes; I must tell Sylvia."

"And I may go on seeing her as usual?"

"Well--will you be guided by my advice--the advice of one who has lived
more than double your years?"

"Certainly," said Horace.

"Then, if I were you, I should go away at once, for a complete change of
air and scene."

"That's impossible, sir--you forget my work!"

"Never mind your work, my boy: leave it for a while, try a sea-voyage,
go round the world, get quite away from these associations."

"But I might come across the Jinnee again," objected Horace; "_he's_
travelling, as I told you."

"Yes, yes, to be sure. Still, I should go away. Consult any doctor, and
he'll tell you the same thing."

"Consult any---- Good God!" cried Horace; "I see what it is--you think
I'm mad!"

"No, no, my dear boy," said the Professor, soothingly, "not mad--nothing
of the sort; perhaps your mental equilibrium is just a trifle--it's
quite intelligible. You see, the sudden turn in your professional
prospects, coupled with your engagement to Sylvia--I've known stronger
minds than yours thrown off their balance--temporarily, of course, quite
temporarily--by less than that."

"You believe I am suffering from delusions?"

"I don't say that. I think you may see ordinary things in a distorted
light."

"Anyhow, you don't believe there really was a Jinnee inside that
bottle?"

"Remember, you yourself assured me at the time you opened it that you
found nothing whatever inside it. Isn't it more credible that you were
right then than that you should be right now?"

"Well," said Horace, "you saw all those black slaves; you ate, or tried
to eat, that unutterably beastly banquet; you heard that music--and then
there was the dancing-girl. And this hall we're in, this robe I've got
on--are _they_ delusions? Because if they are, I'm afraid you will have
to admit that _you're_ mad too."

"Ingeniously put," said the Professor. "I fear it is unwise to argue
with you. Still, I will venture to assert that a strong imagination like
yours, over-heated and saturated with Oriental ideas--to which I fear I
may have contributed--is not incapable of unconsciously assisting in its
own deception. In other words, I think that you may have provided all
this yourself from various quarters without any clear recollection of
the fact."

"That's very scientific and satisfactory as far as it goes, my dear
Professor," said Horace; "but there's one piece of evidence which may
upset your theory--and that's this brass bottle."

"If your reasoning powers were in their normal condition," said the
Professor, compassionately, "you would see that the mere production of
an empty bottle can be no proof of what it contained--or, for that
matter, that it ever contained anything at all!"

"Oh, I see _that_," said Horace; "but _this_ bottle has a stopper with
what you yourself admit to be an inscription of some sort. Suppose that
inscription confirms my story--what then? All I ask you to do is to make
it out for yourself before you decide that I'm either a liar or a
lunatic."

"I warn you," said the Professor, "that if you are trusting to my being
unable to decipher the inscription, you are deceiving yourself. You
represent that this bottle belongs to the period of Solomon--that is,
about a thousand years B.C. Probably you are not aware that the earliest
specimens of Oriental metal-work in existence are not older than the
tenth century of our era. But, granting that it is as old as you allege,
I shall certainly be able to read any inscription there may be on it. I
have made out clay tablets in Cuneiform which were certainly written a
thousand years before Solomon's time."

"So much the better," said Horace. "I'm as certain as I can be that,
whatever is written on that lid--whether it's Phoenician, or Cuneiform,
or anything else--must have some reference to a Jinnee confined in the
bottle, or at least bear the seal of Solomon. But there the thing
is--examine it for yourself."

"Not now," said the Professor; "it's too late, and the light here is not
strong enough. But I'll tell you what I will do. I'll take this stopper
thing home with me, and examine it carefully to-morrow--on one
condition."

"You have only to name it," said Horace.

"My condition is, that if I, and one or two other Orientalists to whom I
may submit it, come to the conclusion that there is no real inscription
at all--or, if any, that a date and meaning must be assigned to it
totally inconsistent with your story--you will accept our finding and
acknowledge that you have been under a delusion, and dismiss the whole
affair from your mind."

"Oh, I don't mind agreeing to _that_," said Horace, "particularly as
it's my only chance."

"Very well, then," said the Professor, as he removed the metal cap and
put it in his pocket; "you may depend upon hearing from me in a day or
two. Meantime, my boy," he continued, almost affectionately, "why not
try a short bicycle tour somewhere, hey? You're a cyclist, I
know--anything but allow yourself to dwell on Oriental subjects."

"It's not so easy to avoid dwelling on them as you think!" said Horace,
with rather a dreary laugh. "And I fancy, Professor, that--whether you
like it or not--you'll have to believe in that Jinnee of mine sooner or
later."

"I can scarcely conceive," replied the Professor, who was by this time
at the outer door, "any degree of evidence which could succeed in
convincing me that your brass bottle had ever contained an Arabian
Jinnee. However, I shall endeavour to preserve an open mind on the
subject. Good evening to you."

As soon as he was alone, Horace paced up and down his deserted halls in
a state of simmering rage as he thought how eagerly he had looked
forward to his little dinner-party; how intimate and delightful it might
have been, and what a monstrous and prolonged nightmare it had actually
proved. And at the end of it there he was--in a fantastic, impossible
dwelling, deserted by every one, his chances of setting himself right
with Sylvia hanging on the slenderest thread; unknown difficulties and
complications threatening him from every side!

He owed all this to Fakrash. Yes, that incorrigibly grateful Jinnee,
with his antiquated notions and his high-flown professions, had
contrived to ruin him more disastrously than if he had been his
bitterest foe! Ah! if he could be face to face with him once more--if
only for five minutes--he would be restrained by no false delicacy: he
would tell him fairly and plainly what a meddling, blundering old fool
he was. But Fakrash had taken his flight for ever: there were no means
of calling him back--nothing to be done now but go to bed and sleep--if
he could!

Exasperated by the sense of his utter helplessness, Ventimore went to
the arch which led to his bed-chamber and drew the curtain back with a
furious pull. And just within the archway, standing erect with folded
arms and the smile of fatuous benignity which Ventimore was beginning to
know and dread, was the form of Fakrash-el-Aamash, the Jinnee!




CHAPTER X

NO PLACE LIKE HOME!


"May thy head long survive!" said Fakrash, by way of salutation, as he
stepped through the archway.

"You're very good," said Horace, whose anger had almost evaporated in
the relief of the Jinnee's unexpected return, "but I don't think any
head can survive this sort of thing long."

"Art thou content with this dwelling I have provided for thee?" inquired
the Jinnee, glancing around the stately hall with perceptible
complacency.

It would have been positively brutal to say how very far from contented
he felt, so Horace could only mumble that he had never been lodged like
that before in all his life.

"It is far below thy deserts," Fakrash observed graciously. "And were
thy friends amazed at the manner of their entertainment?"

"They were," said Horace.

"A sure method of preserving friends is to feast them with liberality,"
remarked the Jinnee.

This was rather more than Horace's temper could stand. "You were kind
enough to provide my friends with such a feast," he said, "that they'll
never come _here_ again."

"How so? Were not the meats choice and abounding in fatness? Was not the
wine sweet, and the sherbet like unto perfumed snow?"

"Oh, everything was--er--as nice as possible," said Horace. "Couldn't
have been better."

"Yet thou sayest that thy friends will return no more--for what reason?"

"Well, you see," explained Horace, reluctantly, "there's such a thing
as doing people _too_ well. I mean, it isn't everybody that appreciates
Arabian cooking. But they might have stood that. It was the dancing-girl
that did for me."

"I commanded that a houri, lovelier than the full moon, and graceful as
a young gazelle, should appear for the delight of thy guests."

"She came," said Horace, gloomily.

"Acquaint me with that which hath occurred--for I perceive plainly that
something hath fallen out contrary to thy desires."

"Well," said Horace, "if it had been a bachelor party, there would have
been no harm in the houri; but, as it happened, two of my guests were
ladies, and they--well, they not unnaturally put a wrong construction on
it all."

"Verily," exclaimed the Jinnee, "thy words are totally incomprehensible
to me."

"I don't know what the custom may be in Arabia," said Horace, "but with
us it is not usual for a man to engage a houri to dance after dinner to
amuse the lady he is proposing to marry. It's the kind of attention
she'd be most unlikely to appreciate.

"Then was one of thy guests the damsel whom thou art seeking to marry?"

"She was," said Horace, "and the other two were her father and mother.
From which you may imagine that it was not altogether agreeable for me
when your gazelle threw herself at my feet and hugged my knees and
declared that I was the light of her eyes. Of course, it all meant
nothing--it's probably the conventional behaviour for a gazelle, and I'm
not reflecting upon her in the least. But, in the circumstances, it
_was_ compromising."

"I thought," said Fakrash, "that thou assuredst me that thou wast not
contracted to any damsel?"

"I think I only said that there was no one whom I would trouble you to
procure as a wife for me," replied Horace; "I certainly was
engaged--though, after this evening, my engagement is at an end--unless
... that reminds me, do you happen to know whether there really _was_ an
inscription on the seal of your bottle, and what it said?"

"I know naught of any inscription," said the Jinnee; "bring me the seal
that I may see it."

"I haven't got it by me at this moment," said Horace; "I lent it to my
friend--the father of this young lady I told you of. You see, Mr.
Fakrash, you got me into--I mean, I was in such a hole over this affair
that I was obliged to make a clean breast of it to him. And he wouldn't
believe it, so it struck me that there might be an inscription of some
sort on the seal, saying who you were, and why Solomon had you confined
in the bottle. Then the Professor would be obliged to admit that there's
something in my story."

"Truly, I wonder at thee and at the smallness of thy penetration," the
Jinnee commented; "for if there were indeed any writing upon this seal,
it is not possible that one of thy race should be able to decipher it."

"Oh, I beg your pardon," said Horace; "Professor Futvoye is an Oriental
scholar; he can make out any inscription, no matter how many thousands
of years old it may be. If anything's there, he'll decipher it. The
question is whether anything _is_ there."

The effect of this speech on Fakrash was as unexpected as it was
inexplicable: the Jinnee's features, usually so mild, began to work
convulsively until they became terrible to look at, and suddenly, with a
fierce howl, he shot up to nearly double his ordinary stature.

"O thou of little sense and breeding!" he cried, in a loud voice; "how
camest thou to deliver the bottle in which I was confined into the hands
of this learned man?"

Ventimore, startled as he was, did not lose his self-possession. "My
dear sir," he said, "I did not suppose you could have any further use
for it. And, as a matter of fact, I didn't give Professor Futvoye the
bottle--which is over there in the corner--but merely the stopper. I
wish you wouldn't tower over me like that--it gives me a crick in the
neck to talk to you. Why on earth should you make such a fuss about my
lending the seal; what possible difference can it make to you even if it
does confirm my story? And it's of immense importance to _me_ that the
Professor should believe I told the truth."

"I spoke in haste," said the Jinnee, slowly resuming his normal size,
and looking slightly ashamed of his recent outburst as well as
uncommonly foolish. "The bottle truly is of no value; and as for the
stopper, since it is but lent, it is no great matter. If there be any
legend upon the seal, perchance this learned man of whom thou speakest
will by this time have deciphered it?"

"No," said Horace, "he won't tackle it till to-morrow. And it's as
likely as not that when he does he won't find any reference to
_you_--and I shall be up a taller tree than ever!"

"Art thou so desirous that he should receive proof that thy story is
true?"

"Why, of course I am! Haven't I been saying so all this time?"

"Who can satisfy him so surely as I?"

"You!" cried Horace. "Do you mean to say you really would? Mr. Fakrash,
you _are_ an old brick! That would be the very thing!"

"There is naught," said the Jinnee, smiling indulgently, "that I would
not do to promote thy welfare, for thou hast rendered me inestimable
service. Acquaint me therefore with the abode of this sage, and I will
present myself before him, and if haply he should find no inscription
upon the seal, or its purport should be hidden from him, then will I
convince him that thou hast spoken the truth and no lie."

Horace very willingly gave him the Professor's address. "Only don't
drop in on him to-night, you know," he thought it prudent to add, "or
you might startle him. Call any time after breakfast to-morrow, and
you'll find him in."

"To-night," said Fakrash, "I return to pursue my search after Suleyman
(on whom be peace!). For not yet have I found him."

"If you _will_ try to do so many things at once," said Horace, "I don't
see how you can expect much result."

"At Nineveh they knew him not--for where I left a city I found but a
heap of ruins, tenanted by owls and bats."

"_They say the lion and the lizard keep the Courts_----" murmured
Horace, half to himself. "I was afraid you might be disappointed with
Nineveh myself. Why not run over to Sheba? You might hear of him there."

"Seba of El-Yemen--the country of Bilkees, the Queen beloved of
Suleyman," said the Jinnee. "It is an excellent suggestion, and I will
follow it without delay."

"But you won't forget to look in on Professor Futvoye to-morrow, will
you?"

"Assuredly I will not. And now, ere I depart, tell me if there be any
other service I may render thee."

Horace hesitated. "There _is_ just one," he said, "only I'm afraid
you'll be offended if I mention it."

"On the head and the eye be thy commands!" said the Jinnee; "for
whatsoever thou desirest shall be accomplished, provided that it lie
within my power to perform it."

"Well," said Horace, "if you're sure you don't mind, I'll tell you.
You've transformed this house into a wonderful place, more like the
Alhambra--I don't mean the one in Leicester Square--than a London
lodging-house. But then I am only a lodger here, and the people the
house belongs to--excellent people in their way--would very much rather
have the house as it was. They have a sort of idea that they won't be
able to let these rooms as easily as the others."

"Base and sordid dogs!" said the Jinnee, with contempt.

"Possibly," said Horace, "it's narrow-minded of them--but that's the way
they look at it. They've actually left rather than stay here. And it's
_their_ house--not mine."

"If they abandon this dwelling, thou wilt remain in the more secure
possession."

"Oh, _shall_ I, though? They'll go to law and have me turned out, and I
shall have to pay ruinous damages into the bargain. So, you see, what
you intended as a kindness will only bring me bad luck."

"Come--without more words--to the statement of thy request," said
Fakrash, "for I am in haste."

"All I want you to do," replied Horace, in some anxiety as to what the
effect of his request would be, "is to put everything here back to what
it was before. It won't take you a minute."

"Of a truth," exclaimed Fakrash, "to bestow a favour upon thee is but a
thankless undertaking, for not once, but twice, hast thou rejected my
benefits--and now, behold, I am at a loss to devise means to gratify
thee!"

"I know I've abused your good nature," said Horace; "but if you'll only
do this, and then convince the Professor that my story is true, I shall
be more than satisfied. I'll never ask another favour of you!"

"My benevolence towards thee hath no bounds--as thou shalt see; and I
can deny thee nothing, for truly thou art a worthy and temperate young
man. Farewell, then, and be it according to thy desire."

He raised his arms above his head, and shot up like a rocket towards the
lofty dome, which split asunder to let him pass. Horace, as he gazed
after him, had a momentary glimpse of deep blue sky, with a star or two
that seemed to be hurrying through the transparent opal scud, before
the roof closed in once more.

Then came a low, rumbling sound, with a shock like a mild earthquake:
the slender pillars swayed under their horseshoe arches; the big
hanging-lanterns went out; the walls narrowed, and the floor heaved and
rose--till Ventimore found himself up in his own familiar sitting-room
once more, in the dark. Outside he could see the great square still
shrouded in grey haze--the street lamps flickering in the wind; a
belated reveller was beguiling his homeward way by rattling his stick
against the railings as he passed.

Inside the room everything was exactly as before, and Horace found it
difficult to believe that a few minutes earlier he had been standing on
that same site, but twenty feet or so below his present level, in a
spacious blue-tiled hall, with a domed ceiling and gaudy pillared
arches.

But he was very far from regretting his short-lived splendour; he burnt
with shame and resentment whenever he thought of that nightmare banquet,
which was so unlike the quiet, unpretentious little dinner he had looked
forward to.

However, it was over now, and it was useless to worry himself about what
could not be helped. Besides, fortunately, there was no great harm done;
the Jinnee had been brought to see his mistake, and, to do him justice,
had shown himself willing enough to put it right. He had promised to go
and see the Professor next day, and the result of the interview could
not fail to be satisfactory. And after this, Ventimore thought, Fakrash
would have the sense and good feeling not to interfere in his affairs
again.

Meanwhile he could sleep now with a mind free from his worst anxieties,
and he went to his room in a spirit of intense thankfulness that he had
a Christian bed to sleep in. He took off his gorgeous robes--the only
things that remained to prove to him that the events of that evening had
been no delusion--and locked them in his wardrobe with a sense of
relief that he would never be required to wear them again, and his last
conscious thought before he fell asleep was the comforting reflection
that, if there were any barrier between Sylvia and himself, it would be
removed in the course of a very few more hours.




CHAPTER XI

A FOOL'S PARADISE


Ventimore found next morning that his bath and shaving-water had been
brought up, from which he inferred, quite correctly, that his landlady
must have returned.

Secretly he was by no means looking forward to his next interview with
her, but she appeared with his bacon and coffee in a spirit so evidently
chastened that he saw that he would have no difficulty so far as she was
concerned.

"I'm sure, Mr. Ventimore, sir," she began, apologetically, "I don't know
what you must have thought of me and Rapkin last night, leaving the
house like we did!"

"It was extremely inconvenient," said Horace, "and not at all what I
should have expected from you. But possibly you had some reason for it?"

"Why, sir," said Mrs. Rapkin, running her hand nervously along the back
of a chair, "the fact is, something come over me, and come over Rapkin,
as we couldn't stop here another minute not if it was ever so."

"Ah!" said Horace, raising his eyebrows, "restlessness--eh, Mrs. Rapkin?
Awkward that it should come on just then, though, wasn't it?"

"It was the look of the place, somehow," said Mrs. Rapkin. "If you'll
believe me, sir, it was all changed like--nothing in it the same from
top to bottom!"

"Really?" said Horace. "I don't notice any difference myself."

"No more don't I, sir, not by daylight; but last night it was all domes
and harches and marble fountings let into the floor, with parties
moving about downstairs all silent and as black as your hat--which
Rapkin saw them as well as what I did."

"From the state your husband was in last night," said Horace, "I should
say he was capable of seeing anything--and double of most things."

"I won't deny, sir, that Rapkin mayn't have been quite hisself, as a
very little upsets him after he's spent an afternoon studying the papers
and what-not at the libery. But I see the niggers too, Mr. Ventimore,
and no one can say _I_ ever take more than is good for me."

"I don't suggest that for a moment, Mrs. Rapkin," said Horace; "only, if
the house was as you describe last night, how do you account for its
being all right this morning?"

Mrs. Rapkin in her embarrassment was reduced to folding her apron into
small pleats. "It's not for me to say, sir," she replied, "but, if I was
to give my opinion, it would be as them parties as called 'ere on camels
the other day was at the bottom of it."

"I shouldn't wonder if you were right, Mrs. Rapkin," said Horace
blandly; "you see, you had been exerting yourself over the cooking, and
no doubt were in an over-excited state, and, as you say, those camels
had taken hold of your imagination until you were ready to see anything
that Rapkin saw, and _he_ was ready to see anything _you_ did. It's not
at all uncommon. Scientific people, I believe, call it 'Collective
Hallucination.'"

"Law, sir!" said the good woman, considerably impressed by this
diagnosis, "you don't mean to say I had _that_? I was always fanciful
from a girl, and could see things in coffee-grounds as nobody else
could--but I never was took like that before. And to think of me leaving
my dinner half cooked, and you expecting your young lady and her pa and
ma! Well, _there_, now, I _am_ sorry. Whatever did you do, sir?"

"We managed to get food of sorts from somewhere," said Horace, "but it
was most uncomfortable for me, and I trust, Mrs. Rapkin--I sincerely
trust that it will not occur again."

"That I'll answer for it shan't, sir. And you won't take no notice to
Rapkin, sir, will you? Though it was his seein' the niggers and that as
put it into my 'ed; but I 'ave spoke to him pretty severe already, and
he's truly sorry and ashamed for forgetting hisself as he did."

"Very well, Mrs. Rapkin," said Horace; "we will understand that last
night's--hem--rather painful experience is not to be alluded to
again--on either side."

He felt sincerely thankful to have got out of it so easily, for it was
impossible to say what gossip might not have been set on foot if the
Rapkins had not been brought to see the advisability of reticence on the
subject.

"There's one more thing, sir, I wished for to speak to you about," said
Mrs. Rapkin; "that great brass vawse as you bought at an oction some
time back. I dunno if you remember it?"

"I remember it," said Horace. "Well, what about it?"

"Why, sir, I found it in the coal-cellar this morning, and I thought I'd
ask if that was where you wished it kep' in future. For, though no
amount o' polish could make it what I call a tasty thing, it's neither
horniment nor yet useful where it is at present."

"Oh," said Horace, rather relieved, for he had an ill-defined dread from
her opening words that the bottle might have been misbehaving itself in
some way. "Put it wherever you please, Mrs. Rapkin; do whatever you like
with it--so long as I don't see the thing again!"

"Very good, sir; I on'y thought I'd ask the question," said Mrs. Rapkin,
as she closed the door upon herself.

Altogether, Horace walked to Great Cloister Street that morning in a
fairly cheerful mood and amiably disposed, even towards the Jinnee. With
all his many faults, he was a thoroughly good-natured old devil--very
superior in every way to the one the Arabian Nights fisherman found in
_his_ bottle.

"Ninety-nine Jinn out of a hundred," thought Horace, "would have turned
nasty on finding benefit after benefit 'declined with thanks.' But one
good point in Fakrash is that he _does_ take a hint in good part, and,
as soon as he can be made to see where he's wrong, he's always ready to
set things right. And he thoroughly understands now that these Oriental
dodges of his won't do nowadays, and that when people see a penniless
man suddenly wallowing in riches they naturally want to know how he came
by them. I don't suppose he will trouble me much in future. If he should
look in now and then, I must put up with it. Perhaps, if I suggested it,
he wouldn't mind coming in some form that would look less outlandish. If
he would get himself up as a banker, or a bishop--the Bishop of Bagdad,
say--I shouldn't care how often he called. Only, I can't have him coming
down the chimney in either capacity. But he'll see that himself. And
he's done me one real service--I mustn't let myself forget that. He sent
me old Wackerbath. By the way, I wonder if he's seen my designs yet, and
what he thinks of them."

He was at his table, engaged in jotting down some rough ideas for the
decoration of the reception-rooms in the projected house, when Beevor
came in.

"I've got nothing doing just now," he said; "so I thought I'd come in
and have a squint at those plans of yours, if they're forward enough to
be seen yet."

Ventimore had to explain that even the imperfect method of examination
proposed was not possible, as he had despatched the drawings to his
client the night before.

"Phew!" said Beevor; "that's sharp work, isn't it?"

"I don't know. I've been sticking hard at it for over a fortnight."

"Well, you might have given me a chance of seeing what you've made of
it. I let you see all _my_ work!"

"To tell you the honest truth, old fellow, I wasn't at all sure you'd
like it, and I was afraid you'd put me out of conceit with what I'd
done, and Wackerbath was in a frantic hurry to have the plans--so there
it was."

"And do you think he'll be satisfied with them?"

"He ought to be. I don't like to be cock-sure, but I believe--I really
do believe--that I've given him rather more than he expected. It's going
to be a devilish good house, though I say it myself."

"Something new-fangled and fantastic, eh? Well, he mayn't care about it,
you know. When you've had my experience, you'll realise that a client is
a rum bird to satisfy."

"I shall satisfy _my_ old bird," said Horace, gaily. "He'll have a cage
he can hop about in to his heart's content."

"You're a clever chap enough," said Beevor; "but to carry a big job like
this through you want one thing--and that's ballast."

"Not while you heave yours at my head! Come, old fellow, you aren't
really riled because I sent off those plans without showing them to you?
I shall soon have them back, and then you can pitch into 'em as much as
you please. Seriously, though, I shall want all the help you can spare
when I come to the completed designs."

"'Um," said Beevor, "you've got along very well alone so far--at least,
by your own account; so I dare say you'll be able to manage without me
to the end. Only, you know," he added, as he left the room, "you haven't
won your spurs yet. A fellow isn't necessarily a Gilbert Scott, or a
Norman Shaw, or a Waterhouse just because he happens to get a
sixty-thousand pound job the first go off!"

"Poor old Beevor!" thought Horace, repentantly, "I've put his back up.
I might just as well have shown him the plans, after all; it wouldn't
have hurt me and it would have pleased _him_. Never mind, I'll make my
peace with him after lunch. I'll ask him to give me his idea for a--no,
hang it all, even friendship has its limits!"

He returned from lunch to hear what sounded like an altercation of some
sort in his office, in which, as he neared his door, Beevor's voice was
distinctly audible.

"My dear sir," he was saying, "I have already told you that it is no
affair of mine."

"But I ask you, sir, as a brother architect," said another voice,
"whether you consider it professional or reasonable----?"

"As a brother architect," replied Beevor, as Ventimore opened the door,
"I would rather be excused from giving an opinion.... Ah, here is Mr.
Ventimore himself."

Horace entered, to find himself confronted by Mr. Wackerbath, whose face
was purple and whose white whiskers were bristling with rage. "So, sir!"
he began. "So, sir!----" and choked ignominiously.

"There appears to have been some misunderstanding, my dear Ventimore,"
explained Beevor, with a studious correctness which was only a shade
less offensive than open triumph. "I think I'd better leave you and this
gentleman to talk it over quietly."

"Quietly?" exclaimed Mr. Wackerbath, with an apoplectic snort;
"_quietly!!_"

"I've no idea what you are so excited about, sir," said Horace. "Perhaps
you will explain?"

"Explain!" Mr. Wackerbath gasped; "why--no, if I speak just now, I shall
be ill: _you_ tell him," he added, waving a plump hand in Beevor's
direction.

"I'm not in possession of all the facts," said Beevor, smoothly; "but,
so far as I can gather, this gentleman thinks that, considering the
importance of the work he intrusted to your hands, you have given less
time to it than he might have expected. As I have told him, that is a
matter which does not concern me, and which he must discuss with you."

So saying, Beevor retired to his own room, and shut the door with the
same irreproachable discretion, which conveyed that he was not in the
least surprised, but was too much of a gentleman to show it.

"Well, Mr. Wackerbath," began Horace, when they were alone, "so you're
disappointed with the house?"

"Disappointed!" said Mr. Wackerbath, furiously. "I am disgusted, sir,
disgusted!"

Horace's heart sank lower still; had he deceived himself after all,
then? Had he been nothing but a conceited fool, and--most galling
thought of all--had Beevor judged him only too accurately? And yet, no,
he could not believe it--he _knew_ his work was good!

"This is plain speaking with a vengeance," he said; "I'm sorry you're
dissatisfied. I did my best to carry out your instructions."

"Oh, you did?" sputtered Mr. Wackerbath. "That's what you call--but go
on, sir, _go_ on!"

"I got it done as quickly as possible," continued Horace, "because I
understood you wished no time to be lost."

"No one can accuse you of dawdling over it. What I should like to know
is how the devil you managed to get it done in the time?"

"I worked incessantly all day and every day," said Horace. "That's how I
managed it--and this is all the thanks I get for it!"

"Thanks?" Mr. Wackerbath well-nigh howled. "You--you insolent young
charlatan; you expect thanks!"

"Now look here, Mr. Wackerbath," said Horace, whose own temper was
getting a little frayed. "I'm not accustomed to being treated like this,
and I don't intend to submit to it. Just tell me--in as moderate
language as you can command--what you object to?"

"I object to the whole damned thing, sir! I mean, I repudiate the entire
concern. It's the work of a raving lunatic--a place that no English
gentleman, sir, with any self-respect or--ah!--consideration for his
reputation and position in the county, could consent to occupy for a
single hour!"

"Oh," said Horace, feeling deathly sick, "in that case it is useless, of
course, to suggest any modifications."

"Absolutely!" said Mr. Wackerbath.

"Very well, then; there's no more to be said," replied Horace. "You will
have no difficulty in finding an architect who will be more successful
in realising your intentions. Mr. Beevor, the gentleman you met just
now," he added, with a touch of bitterness, "would probably be just your
man. Of course I retire altogether. And really, if any one is the
sufferer over this, I fancy it's myself. I can't see how you are any the
worse."

"Not any the worse?" cried Mr. Wackerbath, "when the infernal place is
built!"

"Built!" echoed Horace feebly.

"I tell you, sir, I saw it with my own eyes driving to the station this
morning; my coachman and footman saw it; my wife saw it--damn it, sir,
we _all_ saw it!"

Then Horace understood. His indefatigable Jinnee had been at work again!
Of course, for Fakrash it must have been what he would term "the easiest
of affairs"--especially after a glance at the plans (and Ventimore
remembered that the Jinnee had surprised him at work upon them, and even
requested to have them explained to him)--to dispense with contractors
and bricklayers and carpenters, and construct the entire building in the
course of a single night.

It was a generous and spirited action--but, particularly now that the
original designs had been found faulty and rejected, it placed the
unfortunate architect in a most invidious position.

"Well, sir," said Mr. Wackerbath, with elaborate irony, "I presume it
is you whom I have to thank for improving my land by erecting this
precious palace on it?"

"I--I----" began Horace, utterly broken down; and then he saw, with
emotions that may be imagined, the Jinnee himself, in his green robes,
standing immediately behind Mr. Wackerbath.

"Greeting to you," said Fakrash, coming forward with his smile of
amiable cunning. "If I mistake not," he added, addressing the startled
estate agent, who had jumped visibly, "thou art the merchant for whom my
son here," and he laid a hand on Horace's shrinking shoulder, "undertook
to construct a mansion?"

"I am," said Mr. Wackerbath, in some mystification. "Have I the pleasure
of addressing Mr. Ventimore, senior?"

"No, no," put in Horace; "no relation. He's a sort of informal partner."

"Hast thou not found him an architect of divine gifts?" inquired the
Jinnee, beaming with pride. "Is not the palace that he hath raised for
thee by his transcendent accomplishments a marvel of beauty and
stateliness, and one that Sultans might envy?"

"No, sir!" shouted the infuriated Mr. Wackerbath; "since you ask my
opinion, it's nothing of the sort! It's a ridiculous tom-fool cross
between the palm-house at Kew and the Brighton Pavilion! There's no
billiard-room, and not a decent bedroom in the house. I've been all over
it, so I ought to know; and as for drainage, there isn't a sign of it.
And he has the brass--ah, I should say, the unblushing effrontery--to
call that a country house!"

Horace's dismay was curiously shot with relief. The Jinnee, who was
certainly very far from being a genius except by courtesy, had taken it
upon himself to erect the palace according to his own notions of Arabian
domestic luxury--and Horace, taught by bitter experience, could
sympathise to some extent with his unfortunate client. On the other
hand, it was balm to his smarting self-respect to find that it was not
his own plans, after all, which had been found so preposterous; and, by
some obscure mental process, which I do not propose to explain, he
became reconciled, and almost grateful, to the officious Fakrash. And
then, too, he was _his_ Jinnee, and Horace had no intention of letting
him be bullied by an outsider.

"Let me explain, Mr. Wackerbath," he said. "Personally I've had nothing
to do with this. This gentleman, wishing to spare me the trouble, has
taken upon himself to build your house for you, without consulting
either of us, and, from what I know of his powers in the direction, I've
no doubt that--that it's a devilish fine place, in its way. Anyhow, we
make no charge for it--he presents it to you as a free gift. Why not
accept it as such and make the best of it?"

"Make the best of it?" stormed Mr. Wackerbath. "Stand by and see the
best site in three counties defaced by a jimcrack Moorish nightmare like
that! Why, they'll call it 'Wackerbath's Folly,' sir. I shall be the
laughing-stock of the neighbourhood. I can't live in the beastly
building. I couldn't afford to keep it up, and I won't have it cumbering
my land. Do you hear? _I won't!_ I'll go to law, cost me what it may,
and compel you and your Arabian friends there to pull the thing down.
I'll take the case up to the House of Lords, if necessary, and fight you
as long as I can stand!"

"As long as thou canst stand!" repeated Fakrash, gently. "That is a long
time truly, O thou litigious one!... On all fours, ungrateful dog that
thou art!" he cried, with an abrupt and entire change of manner, "and
crawl henceforth for the remainder of thy days. I, Fakrash-el-Aamash,
command thee!"

It was both painful and grotesque to see the portly and intensely
respectable Mr. Wackerbath suddenly drop forward on his hands while
desperately striving to preserve his dignity. "How dare you, sir?" he
almost barked, "how _dare_ you, I say? Are you aware that I could summon
you for this? Let me up. I _insist_ upon getting up!"

"O contemptible in aspect!" replied the Jinnee, throwing open the door.
"Begone to thy kennel."

"I won't! I can't!" whimpered the unhappy man. "How do you expect
me--me!--to cross Westminster Bridge on all fours? What will the
officials think at Waterloo, where I have been known and respected for
years? How am I to face my family in--in this position? Do, for mercy's
sake, let me get up!"

Horace had been too shocked and startled to speak before, but now
humanity, coupled with disgust for the Jinnee's high-handed methods,
compelled him to interfere. "Mr. Fakrash," he said, "this has gone far
enough. Unless you stop tormenting this unfortunate gentleman, I've done
with you."

"Never," said Fakrash. "He hath dared to abuse my palace, which is far
too sumptuous a dwelling for such a son of a burnt dog as he. Therefore,
I will make his abode to be in the dust for ever."

"But I _don't_ find fault," yelped poor Mr. Wackerbath. "You--you
entirely misunderstood the--the few comments I ventured to make. It's a
capital mansion, handsome, and yet 'homey,' too. I'll never say another
word against it. I'll--yes, I'll _live_ in it--if only you'll let me
up?"

"Do as he asks you," said Horace to the Jinnee, "or I swear I'll never
speak to you again."

"Thou art the arbiter of this matter," was the reply. "And if I yield,
it is at thy intercession, and not his. Rise then," he said to the
humiliated client; "depart, and show us the breadth of thy shoulders."

It was this precise moment which Beevor, who was probably unable to
restrain his curiosity any longer, chose to re-enter the room. "Oh,
Ventimore," he began, "did I leave my----?... I beg your pardon. I
thought you were alone again."

"Don't go, sir," said Mr. Wackerbath, as he scrambled awkwardly to his
feet, his usually florid face mottled in grey and lilac. "I--I should
like you to know that, after talking things quietly over with your
friend Mr. Ventimore and his partner here, I am thoroughly convinced
that my objections were quite untenable. I retract all I said.
The house is--ah--admirably planned: _most_ convenient, roomy,
and--ah--unconventional. The--the entire freedom from all sanitary
appliances is a particular recommendation. In short, I am more than
satisfied. Pray forget anything I may have said which might be taken to
imply the contrary.... Gentlemen, good afternoon!"

He bowed himself past the Jinnee in a state of deference and
apprehension, and was heard stumbling down the staircase. Horace hardly
dared to meet Beevor's eyes, which were fixed upon the green-turbaned
Jinnee, as he stood apart in dreamy abstraction, smiling placidly to
himself.

"I say," Beevor said to Horace, at last, in an undertone, "you never
told me you had gone into partnership."

"He's not a regular partner," whispered Ventimore; "he does odd things
for me occasionally, that's all."

"He soon managed to smooth your client down," remarked Beevor.

"Yes," said Horace; "he's an Oriental, you see, and, he has a--a very
persuasive manner. Would you like to be introduced?"

"If it's all the same to you," replied Beevor, still below his voice,
"I'd rather be excused. To tell you the truth, old fellow, I don't
altogether fancy the looks of him, and it's my opinion," he added, "that
the less you have to do with him the better. He strikes me as a
wrong'un, old man."

"No, no," said Horace; "eccentric, that's all--you don't understand
him."

"Receive news!" began the Jinnee, after Beevor, with suspicion and
disapproval evident even on his back and shoulders, had retreated to
his own room, "Suleyman, the son of Daood, sleeps with his fathers."

"I know," retorted Horace, whose nerves were unequal to much reference
to Solomon just then. "So does Queen Anne."

"I have not heard of her. But art thou not astounded, then, by my
tidings?"

"I have matters nearer home to think about," said Horace, dryly. "I must
say, Mr. Fakrash, you have landed me in a pretty mess!"

"Explain thyself more fully, for I comprehend thee not."

"Why on earth," Horace groaned, "couldn't you let me build that house my
own way?"

"Did I not hear thee with my own ears lament thy inability to perform
the task? Thereupon, I determined that no disgrace should fall upon thee
by reason of such incompetence, since I myself would erect a palace so
splendid that it should cause thy name to live for ever. And, behold, it
is done."

"It is," said Horace. "And so am I. I don't want to reproach you. I
quite feel that you have acted with the best intentions; but, oh, hang
it all! _can't_ you see that you've absolutely wrecked my career as an
architect?"

"That is a thing that cannot be," returned the Jinnee, "seeing that thou
hast all the credit."

"The credit! This is England, not Arabia. What credit can I gain from
being supposed to be the architect of an Oriental pavilion, which might
be all very well for Haroun-al-Raschid, but I can assure you is
preposterous as a home for an average Briton?"

"Yet that overfed hound," remarked the Jinnee, "expressed much
gratification therewith."

"Naturally, after he had found that he could not give a candid opinion
except on all-fours. A valuable testimonial, that! And how do you
suppose I can take his money? No, Mr. Fakrash, if I have to go on
all-fours myself for it, I must say, and I will say, that you've made a
most frightful muddle of it!"

"Acquaint me with thy wishes," said Fakrash, a little abashed, "for thou
knowest that I can refuse thee naught."

"Then," said Horace, boldly, "couldn't you remove that palace--dissipate
it into space or something?"

"Verily," said the Jinnee, in an aggravated tone, "to do good acts unto
such as thee is but wasted time, for thou givest me no peace till they
are undone!"

"This is the last time," urged Horace; "I promise never to ask you for
anything again."

"Not for the first time hast thou made such a promise," said Fakrash.
"And save for the magnitude of thy service unto me, I would not hearken
to this caprice of thine, nor wilt thou find me so indulgent on another
occasion. But for this once"--and he muttered some words and made a
sweeping gesture with his right hand--"thy desire is granted unto thee.
Of the palace and all that is therein there remaineth no trace!"

"Another surprise for poor old Wackerbath," thought Horace, "but a
pleasant one this time. My dear Mr. Fakrash," he said aloud, "I really
can't say how grateful I am to you. And now--I hate bothering you like
this, but if you _could_ manage to look in on Professor Futvoye----"

"What!" cried the Jinnee, "yet another request? Already!"

"Well, you promised you'd do that before, you know!" said Horace.

"For that matter," remarked Fakrash, "I have already fulfilled my
promise."

"You have?" Horace exclaimed. "And does he believe now that it's all
true about that bottle?"

"When I left him," answered the Jinnee, "all his doubts were removed."

"By Jove, you _are_ a trump!" cried Horace, only too glad to be able to
commend with sincerity. "And do you think, if I went to him now, I
should find him the same as usual?"

"Nay," said Fakrash, with his weak and yet inscrutable smile, "that is
more than I can promise thee."

"But why?" asked Horace, "if he knows all?"

There was the oddest expression in the Jinnee's furtive eyes: a kind of
elfin mischief combined with a sense of wrong-doing, like a naughty
child whose palate is still reminiscent of illicit jam. "Because," he
replied, with a sound between a giggle and a chuckle, "because, in order
to overcome his unbelief, it was necessary to transform him into a
one-eyed mule of hideous appearance."

"_What!_" cried Horace. But, whether to avoid thanks or explanations,
the Jinnee had disappeared with his customary abruptness.

"Fakrash!" shouted Horace, "Mr. Fakrash! Come back! Do you hear? I
_must_ speak to you!" There was no answer; the Jinnee might be well on
his way to Lake Chad, or Jericho, by that time--he was certainly far
enough from Great Cloister Street.

Horace sat down at his drawing-table, and, his head buried in his hands,
tried to think out this latest complication. Fakrash had transformed
Professor Futvoye into a one-eyed mule. It would have seemed incredible,
almost unthinkable, once, but so many impossibilities had happened to
Horace of late that one more made little or no strain upon his
credulity.

What he felt chiefly was the new barrier that this event must raise
between himself and Sylvia; to do him justice, the mere fact that the
father of his _fiancée_ was a mule did not lessen his ardour in the
slightest. Even if he had felt no personal responsibility for the
calamity, he loved Sylvia far too well to be deterred by it, and few
family cupboards are without a skeleton of some sort.

With courage and the determination to look only on the bright side of
things, almost any domestic drawback can be lived down.

But the real point, as he instantly recognised, was whether in the
changed condition of circumstances Sylvia would consent to marry _him_.
Might she not, after the experiences of that abominable dinner of his
the night before, connect him in some way with her poor father's
transformation? She might even suspect him of employing this means of
compelling the Professor to renew their engagement; and, indeed, Horace
was by no means certain himself that the Jinnee might not have acted
from some muddle-headed motive of this kind. It was likely enough that
the Professor, after learning the truth, should have refused to allow
his daughter to marry the _protégé_ of so dubious a patron, and that
Fakrash had then resorted to pressure.

In any case, Ventimore knew Sylvia well enough to feel sure that pride
would steel her heart against him so long as this obstacle remained.

It would be unseemly to set down here all that Horace said and thought
of the person who had brought all this upon them, but after some wild
and futile raving he became calm enough to recognise that his proper
place was by Sylvia's side. Perhaps he ought to have told her at first,
and then she would have been less unprepared for this--and yet how could
he trouble her mind so long as he could cling to the hope that the
Jinnee would cease to interfere?

But now he could be silent no longer; naturally the prospect of calling
at Cottesmore Gardens just then was anything but agreeable, but he felt
it would be cowardly to keep away.

Besides, he could cheer them up; he could bring with him a message of
hope. No doubt they believed that the Professor's transformation would
be permanent--a harrowing prospect for so united a family; but,
fortunately, Horace would be able to reassure them on this point.

Fakrash had always revoked his previous performances as soon as he could
be brought to understand their fatuity--and Ventimore would take good
care that he revoked this.

Nevertheless, it was with a sinking heart and an unsteady hand that he
pulled the visitors' bell at the Futvoyes' house that afternoon, for he
neither knew in what state he should find that afflicted family, nor how
they would regard his intrusion at such a time.




CHAPTER XII

THE MESSENGER OF HOPE


Jessie, the neat and pretty parlour-maid, opened the door with a smile
of welcome which Horace found reassuring. No girl, he thought, whose
master had suddenly been transformed into a mule could possibly smile
like that. The Professor, she told him, was not at home, which again was
comforting. For a _savant_, however careless about his personal
appearance, would scarcely venture to brave public opinion in the
semblance of a quadruped.

"Is the Professor out?" he inquired, to make sure.

"Not exactly out, sir," said the maid, "but particularly engaged,
working hard in his study, and not to be disturbed on no account."

This was encouraging, too, since a mule could hardly engage in literary
labour of any kind. Evidently the Jinnee must either have overrated his
supernatural powers, or else have been deliberately amusing himself at
Horace's expense.

"Then I will see Miss Futvoye," he said.

"Miss Sylvia is with the master, sir," said the girl; "but if you'll
come into the drawing-room I'll let Mrs. Futvoye know you are here."

He had not been in the drawing-room long before Mrs. Futvoye appeared,
and one glance at her face confirmed Ventimore's worst fears. Outwardly
she was calm enough, but it was only too obvious that her calmness was
the result of severe self-repression; her eyes, usually so shrewdly and
placidly observant, had a haggard and hunted look; her ears seemed on
the strain to catch some distant sound.

"I hardly thought we should see you to-day," she began, in a tone of
studied reserve; "but perhaps you came to offer some explanation of the
extraordinary manner in which you thought fit to entertain us last
night? If so----"

"The fact is," said Horace, looking into his hat, "I came because I was
rather anxious about the Professor.

"About my husband?" said the poor lady, with a really heroic effort to
appear surprised. "He is--as well as could be expected. Why should you
suppose otherwise?" she asked, with a flash of suspicion.

"I fancied perhaps that--that he mightn't be quite himself to-day," said
Horace, with his eyes on the carpet.

"I see," said Mrs. Futvoye, regaining her composure; "you were afraid
that all those foreign dishes might not have agreed with him.
But--except that he is a little irritable this afternoon--he is much as
usual."

"I'm delighted to hear it," said Horace, with reviving hope. "Do you
think he would see me for a moment?"

"Great heavens, no!" cried Mrs. Futvoye, with an irrepressible start; "I
mean," she explained, "that, after what took place last night,
Anthony--my husband--very properly feels that an interview would be too
painful."

"But when we parted he was perfectly friendly."

"I can only say," replied the courageous woman, "that you would find him
considerably altered now."

Horace had no difficulty in believing it.

"At least, I may see Sylvia?" he pleaded.

"No," said Mrs. Futvoye; "I really can't have Sylvia disturbed just now.
She is very busy, helping her father. Anthony has to read a paper at one
of his societies to-morrow night, and she is writing it out from his
dictation."

If any departure from strict truth can ever be excusable, this surely
was one; unfortunately, just then Sylvia herself burst into the room.

"Mother," she cried, without seeing Horace in her agitation, "do come
to papa, quick! He has just begun kicking again, and I can't manage him
alone.... Oh, _you_ here?" she broke off, as she saw who was in the
room. "Why do you come here now, Horace? Please, _please_ go away! Papa
is rather unwell--nothing serious, only--oh, _do_ go away!"

"Darling!" said Horace, going to her and taking both her hands, "I know
all--do you understand?--_all_!"

"Mamma!" cried Sylvia, reproachfully, "have you told him--already? When
we settled that even Horace wasn't to know till--till papa recovers!"

"I have told him nothing, my dear," replied her mother. "He can't
possibly know, unless--but no, that isn't possible. And, after all," she
added, with a warning glance at her daughter, "I don't know why we
should make any mystery about a mere attack of gout. But I had better go
and see if your father wants anything." And she hurried out of the room.

Sylvia sat down and gazed silently into the fire. "I dare say you don't
know how dreadfully people kick when they've got gout," she remarked
presently.

"Oh yes, I do," said Horace, sympathetically; "at least, I can guess."

"Especially when it's in both legs," continued Sylvia.

"Or," said Horace gently, "in all four."

"Ah, you _do_ know!" cried Sylvia. "Then it's all the more horrid of you
to come!"

"Dearest," said Horace, "is not this just the time when my place should
be near you--and him?"

"Not near papa, Horace!" she put in anxiously; "it wouldn't be at all
safe."

"Do you really think I have any fear for myself?"

"Are you sure you quite know--what he is like now?"

"I understand," said Horace, trying to put it as considerately as
possible, "that a casual observer, who didn't know your father, might
mistake him, at first sight, for--for some sort of quadruped."

"He's a mule," sobbed Sylvia, breaking down entirely. "I could bear it
better if he had been a _nice_ mule.... B--but he isn't!"

"Whatever he may be," declared Horace, as he knelt by her chair
endeavouring to comfort her, "nothing can alter my profound respect for
him. And you must let me see him, Sylvia; because I fully believe I
shall be able to cheer him up."

"If you imagine you can persuade him to--to laugh it off!" said Sylvia,
tearfully.

"I wasn't proposing to try to make him see the humorous side of his
situation," Horace mildly explained. "I trust I have more tact than
that. But he may be glad to know that, at the worst, it is only a
temporary inconvenience. I'll take care that he's all right again before
very long."

She started up and looked at him, her eyes widened with dawning dread
and mistrust.

"If you can speak like that," she said, "it must have been _you_
who--no, I can't believe it--that would be too horrible!"

"I who did _what_, Sylvia? Weren't you there when--when it happened?"

"No," she replied. "I was only told of it afterwards. Mother heard papa
talking loudly in his study this morning, as if he was angry with
somebody, and at last she grew so uneasy she couldn't bear it any
longer, and went in to see what was the matter with him. Dad was quite
alone and looked as usual, only a little excited; and then, without the
slightest warning, just as she entered the room, he--he changed slowly
into a mule before her eyes! Anybody but mamma would have lost her head
and roused the whole house."

"Thank Heaven she didn't!" said Horace, fervently. "That was what I was
most afraid of."

"Then--oh, Horace, it _was_ you! It's no use denying it. I feel more
certain of it every moment!"

"Now, Sylvia!" he protested, still anxious, if possible, to keep the
worst from her, "what could have put such an idea as that into your
head?"

"I don't know," she said slowly. "Several things last night. No one who
was really nice, and like everybody else, would live in such queer rooms
like those, and dine on cushions, with dreadful black slaves, and--and
dancing-girls and things. You pretended you were quite poor."

"So I am, darling. And as for my rooms, and--and the rest, they're all
gone, Sylvia. If you went to Vincent Square to-day, you wouldn't find a
trace of them!"

"That only shows!" said Sylvia. "But why should you play such a cruel,
and--and ungentlemanly trick on poor dad? If you had ever really loved
me----!"

"But I do, Sylvia, you can't really believe me capable of such an
outrage! Look at me and tell me so."

"No, Horace," said Sylvia frankly. "I don't believe _you_ did it. But I
believe you know who _did_. And you had better tell me at once!"

"If you're quite sure you can stand it," he replied, "I'll tell you
everything." And, as briefly as possible, he told her how he had
unsealed the brass bottle, and all that had come of it.

She bore it, on the whole, better than he had expected; perhaps, being a
woman, it was some consolation to her to remind him that she had
foretold something of this kind from the very first.

"But, of course, I never really thought it would be so awful as this!"
she said. "Horace, how _could_ you be so careless as to let a great
wicked thing like that escape out of its bottle?"

"I had a notion it was a manuscript," said Horace--"till he came out.
But he isn't a great wicked thing, Sylvia. He's an amiable old Jinnee
enough. And he'd do anything for me. Nobody could be more grateful and
generous than he has been."

"Do you call it generous to change the poor, dear dad into a mule?"
inquired Sylvia, with a little curl of her upper lip.

"That was an oversight," said Horace; "he meant no harm by it. In Arabia
they do these things--or used to in his day. Not that that's much excuse
for him. Still, he's not so young as he was, and besides, being bottled
up for all those centuries must have narrowed him rather. You must try
and make allowances for him, darling."

"I shan't," said Sylvia, "unless he apologises to poor father, and puts
him right at once."

"Why, of course, he'll do that," Horace answered confidently. "I'll see
that he does. I don't mean to stand any more of his nonsense. I'm afraid
I've been just a little too slack for fear of hurting his feelings; but
this time he's gone too far, and I shall talk to him like a Dutch uncle.
He's always ready to do the right thing when he's once shown where he
has gone wrong--only he takes such a lot of showing, poor old chap!"

"But when do you think he'll--do the right thing?"

"Oh, as soon as I see him again."

"Yes; but when _will_ you see him again?"

"That's more than I can say. He's away just now--in China, or Peru, or
somewhere."

"Horace! Then he won't be back for months and months!"

"Oh yes, he will. He can do the whole trip, _aller et retour_, you know,
in a few hours. He's an active old beggar for his age. In the meantime,
dearest, the chief thing is to keep up your father's spirits. So I think
I'd better---- I was just telling Sylvia, Mrs. Futvoye," he said, as
that lady re-entered the room, "that I should like to see the Professor
at once."

"It's quite, _quite_ impossible!" was the nervous reply. "He's in such a
state that he's unable to see any one. You don't know how fractious gout
makes him!"

"Dear Mrs. Futvoye," said Horace, "believe me, I know more than you
suppose."

"Yes, mother, dear," put in Sylvia, "he knows everything--_really_
everything. And perhaps it might do dad good to see him."

Mrs. Futvoye sank helplessly down on a settee. "Oh, dear me!" she said.
"I don't know _what_ to say. I really don't. If you had seen him plunge
at the mere suggestion of a doctor!"

Privately, though naturally he could not say so, Horace thought a vet.
might be more appropriate, but eventually he persuaded Mrs. Futvoye to
conduct him to her husband's study.

"Anthony, love," she said, as she knocked gently at the door, "I've
brought Horace Ventimore to see you for a few moments, if he may."

It seemed from the sounds of furious snorting and stamping within, that
the Professor resented this intrusion on his privacy. "My dear Anthony,"
said his devoted wife, as she unlocked the door and turned the key on
the inside after admitting Horace, "try to be calm. Think of the
servants downstairs. Horace is _so_ anxious to help."

As for Ventimore, he was speechless--so inexpressibly shocked was he by
the alteration in the Professor's appearance. He had never seen a mule
in sorrier condition or in so vicious a temper. Most of the lighter
furniture had been already reduced to matchwood; the glass doors of the
bookcase were starred or shivered; precious Egyptian pottery and glass
were strewn in fragments on the carpets, and even the mummy, though it
still smiled with the same enigmatic cheerfulness, seemed to have
suffered severely from the Professorial hoofs.

Horace instinctively felt that any words of conventional sympathy would
jar here; indeed, the Professor's attitude and expression reminded him
irresistibly of a certain "Blondin Donkey" he had seen enacted by
music-hall artists, at the point where it becomes sullen and defiant.
Only, he had laughed helplessly at the Blondin Donkey, and somehow he
felt no inclination to laugh now.

"Believe me, sir," he began, "I would not disturb you like this
unless--steady there, for Heaven's sake Professor, don't kick till
you've heard me out!" For, the mule, in a clumsy, shambling way which
betrayed the novice, was slowly revolving on his own axis so as to bring
his hind-quarters into action, while still keeping his only serviceable
eye upon his unwelcome visitor.

"Listen to me, sir," said Horace, manoeuvring in his turn. "I'm not to
blame for this, and if you brain me, as you seem to be endeavouring to
do, you'll simply destroy the only living man who can get you out of
this."

The mule appeared impressed by this, and backed cumbrously into a
corner, from which he regarded Horace with a mistrustful, but attentive,
eye. "If, as I imagine, sir," continued Horace, "you are, though
temporarily deprived of speech, perfectly capable of following an
argument, will you kindly signify it by raising your right ear?" The
mule's right ear rose with a sharp twitch.

"Now we can get on," said Horace. "First let me tell you that I
repudiate all responsibility for the proceedings of that infernal
Jinnee.... I wouldn't stamp like that--you might go through the floor,
you know.... Now, if you will only exercise a little patience----"

At this the exasperated animal made a sudden run at him with his mouth
open, which obliged Horace to shelter himself behind a large leather
arm-chair. "You really _must_ keep cool, sir," he remonstrated; "your
nerves are naturally upset. If I might suggest a little champagne--you
could manage it in--in a bucket, and it would help you to pull yourself
together. A whisk of your--er--tail would imply consent." The
Professor's tail instantly swept some rare Arabian glass lamps and vases
from a shelf at his rear, whereupon Mrs. Futvoye went out, and returned
presently with a bottle of champagne and a large china _jardinière_, as
the best substitute she could find for a bucket.

When the mule had drained the flower-pot greedily and appeared
refreshed, Horace proceeded: "I have every hope, sir," he said, "that
before many hours you will be smiling--pray don't prance like that, I
mean what I say--smiling over what now seems to you, very justly, a most
annoying and serious catastrophe. I shall speak seriously to Fakrash
(the Jinnee, you know), and I am sure that, as soon as he realises what
a frightful blunder he has made, he will be the first to offer you every
reparation in his power. For, old foozle as he is, he's thoroughly
good-hearted."

The Professor drooped his ears at this, and shook his head with a
doleful incredulity that made him look more like the Pantomime Donkey
than ever.

"I think I understand him fairly well by this time, sir," said Horace,
"and I'll answer for it that there's no real harm in him. I give you my
word of honour that, if you'll only remain quiet and leave everything to
me, you shall very soon be released from this absurd position. That's
all I came to tell you, and now I won't trouble you any longer. If you
_could_ bring yourself, as a sign that you bear me no ill-feeling, to
give me your--your off-foreleg at parting, I----"

But the Professor turned his back in so pointed and ominous a manner
that Horace judged it better to withdraw without insisting further. "I'm
afraid," he said to Mrs. Futvoye, after they had rejoined Sylvia in the
drawing-room--"I'm afraid your husband is still a little sore with me
about this miserable business."

"I don't know what else you can expect," replied the lady, rather
tartly; "he can't help feeling--as we all must and do, after what you
said just now--that, but for you, this would never have happened!"

"If you mean it was all through my attending that sale," said Horace,
"you might remember that I only went there at the Professor's request.
You know that, Sylvia."

"Yes, Horace," said Sylvia; "but papa never asked you to buy a hideous
brass bottle with a nasty Genius in it. And any one with ordinary common
sense would have kept it properly corked!"

"What, you against me too, Sylvia!" cried Horace, cut to the quick.

"No, Horace, never against you. I didn't mean to say what I did. Only it
_is_ such a relief to put the blame on somebody. I know, I _know_ you
feel it almost as much as we do. But so long as poor, dear papa remains
as he is, we can never be anything to one another. You must see that,
Horace!"

"Yes, I see that," he said; "but trust me, Sylvia, he shall _not_ remain
as he is. I swear he shall not. In another day or two, at the outside,
you will see him his own self once more. And then--oh, darling, darling,
you won't let anything or anybody separate us? Promise me that!"

He would have held her in his arms, but she kept him at a distance.
"When papa is himself again," she said, "I shall know better what to
say. I can't promise anything now, Horace."

Horace recognised that no appeal would draw a more definite answer from
her just then; so he took his leave, with the feeling that, after all,
matters must improve before very long, and in the meantime he must bear
the suspense with patience.

He got through dinner as well as he could in his own rooms, for he did
not like to go to his club lest the Jinnee should suddenly return during
his absence.

"If he wants me he'd be quite equal to coming on to the club after me,"
he reflected, "for he has about as much sense of the fitness of things
as Mary's lamb. I shouldn't care about seeing him suddenly bursting
through the floor of the smoking-room. Nor would the committee."

He sat up late, in the hope that Fakrash would appear; but the Jinnee
made no sign, and Horace began to get uneasy. "I wish there was some
way of ringing him up," he thought. "If he were only the slave of a ring
or a lamp, I'd rub it; but it wouldn't be any use to rub that
bottle--and, besides, he isn't a slave. Probably he has a suspicion that
he has not exactly distinguished himself over his latest feat, and
thinks it prudent to keep out of my way for the present. But if he
fancies he'll make things any better for himself by that he'll find
himself mistaken."

It was maddening to think of the unhappy Professor still fretting away
hour after hour in the uncongenial form of a mule, waiting impatiently
for the relief that never came. If it lingered much longer, he might
actually starve, unless his family thought of getting in some oats for
him, and he could be prevailed upon to touch them. And how much longer
could they succeed in concealing the nature of his affliction? How long
before all Kensington, and the whole civilised world, would know that
one of the leading Orientalists in Europe was restlessly prancing on
four legs around his study in Cottesmore Gardens?

Racked by speculations such as these, Ventimore lay awake till well into
the small hours, when he dropped off into troubled dreams that, wild as
they were, could not be more grotesquely fantastic than the realities to
which they were the alternative.




CHAPTER XIII

A CHOICE OF EVILS


Not even his morning tub could brace Ventimore's spirits to their usual
cheerfulness. After sending away his breakfast almost untasted he stood
at his window, looking drearily out over the crude green turf of Vincent
Square at the indigo masses of the Abbey and the Victoria Tower and the
huge gasometers to the right which loomed faintly through a dun-coloured
haze.

He felt a positive loathing for his office, to which he had gone with
such high hopes and enthusiasm of late. There was no work for him to do
there any longer, and the sight of his drawing-table and materials
would, he knew, be intolerable in their mute mockery.

Nor could he with any decency present himself again at Cottesmore
Gardens while the situation still remained unchanged, as it must do
until he had seen Fakrash.

When would the Jinnee return, or--horrible suspicion!--did he never
intend to return at all?

"Fakrash!" he groaned aloud, "you _can't_ really mean to leave me in
such a regular deuce of a hole as this?"

"At thy service!" said a well-known voice behind him, and he turned to
see the Jinnee standing smiling on the hearthrug--and at this
accomplishment of his dearest desire all his indignation surged back.

"Oh, _there_ you are!" he said irritably. "Where on earth have you been
all this time?"

"Nowhere on earth," was the bland reply; "but in the regions of the air,
seeking to promote thy welfare."

"If you have been as brilliantly successful up there as you have down
here," retorted Horace, "I have much to thank you for."

"I am more than repaid," answered the Jinnee, who, like many highly
estimable persons, was almost impervious to irony, "by such assurances
of thy gratitude."

"I'm _not_ grateful," said Horace, fuming. "I'm devilish annoyed!"

"Well hath it been written," replied the Jinnee:--


    "'Be disregardful of thine affairs, and commit them to the course
      of Fate,
    For often a thing that enrages thee may eventually be to thee
      pleasing.'"


"I don't see the remotest chance of that, in my case," said Horace.

"Why is thy countenance thus troubled, and what new complaint hast thou
against me?"

"What the devil do you mean by turning a distinguished and perfectly
inoffensive scholar into a wall-eyed mule?" Horace broke out. "If that
is your idea of a practical joke----!"

"It is one of the easiest affairs possible," said the Jinnee,
complacently running his fingers through the thin strands of his beard.
"I have accomplished such transformations on several occasions."

"Then you ought to be ashamed of yourself, that's all. The question is
now--how do you propose to restore him again?"

"Far from undoing be that which is accomplished!" was the sententious
answer.

"What?" cried Horace, hardly believing his ears; "you surely don't mean
to allow that unhappy Professor to remain like that for ever, do you?"

"None can alter what is predestined."

"Very likely not. But it wasn't decreed that a learned man should be
suddenly degraded to a beastly mule for the rest of his life. Destiny
wouldn't be such a fool!"

"Despise not mules, for they are useful and valuable animals in the
household."

"But, confound it all, have you no imagination? Can't you enter
at all into the feelings of a man--a man of wide learning and
reputation--suddenly plunged into such a humiliating condition?"

"Upon his own head be it," said Fakrash, coldly. "For he hath brought
this fate upon himself."

"Well, how do you suppose that you have helped _me_ by this performance?
Will it make him any the more disposed to consent to my marrying his
daughter? Is that all you know of the world?"

"It is not my intention that thou shouldst take his daughter to wife."

"Whether you approve or not, it's my intention to marry her."

"Assuredly she will not marry thee so long as her father remaineth a
mule."

"There I agree with you. But is that your notion of doing me a good
turn?"

"I did not consider thy interest in this matter."

"Then will you be good enough to consider it now? I have pledged my word
that he shall be restored to his original form. Not only my happiness is
at stake, but my honour."

"By failure to perform the impossible none can lose honour. And this is
a thing that cannot be undone."

"Cannot be undone?" repeated Horace, feeling a cold clutch at his heart.
"Why?"

"Because," said the Jinnee, sullenly, "I have forgotten the way."

"Nonsense!" retorted Horace; "I don't believe it. Why," he urged,
descending to flattery, "you're such a clever old Johnny--I beg your
pardon, I meant such a clever old _Jinnee_--you can do anything, if you
only give your mind to it. Just look at the way you changed this house
back again to what it was. Marvellous!"

"That was the veriest trifle," said Fakrash, though he was obviously
pleased by this tribute to his talent; "this would be a different affair
altogether."

"But child's play to _you_!" insinuated Horace. "Come, you know very
well you can do it if you only choose."

"It may be as thou sayest. But I do not choose."

"Then I think," said Horace, "that, considering the obligation you admit
yourself you are under to me, I have a right to know the reason--the
_real_ reason--why you refuse."

"Thy claim is not without justice," answered the Jinnee, after a pause,
"nor can I decline to gratify thee."

"That's right," cried Horace; "I knew you'd see it in the proper light
when it was once put to you. Now, don't lose any more time, but restore
that unfortunate man at once, as you've promised."

"Not so," said the Jinnee; "I promised thee a reason for my refusal--and
that thou shalt have. Know then, O my son, that this indiscreet one had,
by some vile and unhallowed arts, divined the hidden meaning of what was
written upon the seal of the bottle wherein I was confined, and was
preparing to reveal the same unto all men."

"What would it matter to you if he did?"

"Much--for the writing contained a false and lying record of my
actions."

"If it is all lies, it can't do you any harm. Why not treat them with
the contempt they deserve?"

"They are not _all_ lies," the Jinnee admitted reluctantly.

"Well, never mind. Whatever you've done, you've expiated it by this
time."

"Now that Suleyman is no more, it is my desire to seek out my kinsmen of
the Green Jinn, and live out my days in amity and honour. How can that
be if they hear my name execrated by all mortals?"

"Nobody would think of execrating you about an affair three thousand
years old. It's too stale a scandal."

"Thou speakest without understanding. I tell thee that if men knew but
the half of my misdoings," said Fakrash, in a tone not altogether free
from a kind of sombre complacency, "the noise of them would rise even
unto the uppermost regions, and scorn and loathing would be my portion."

"Oh, it's not so bad as all that," said Horace, who had a private
impression that the Jinnee's "past" would probably turn out to be
chiefly made up of peccadilloes. "But, anyway, I'm sure the Professor
will readily agree to keep silence about it; and, as you have of course,
got the seal in your own possession again----"

"Nay; the seal is still in his possession, and it is naught to me where
it is deposited," said Fakrash, "since the only mortal who hath
deciphered it is now a dumb animal."

"Not at all," said Horace. "There are several friends of his who could
decipher that inscription quite as easily as he did."

"Is this the truth?" said the Jinnee, in visible alarm.

"Certainly," said Horace. "Within the last quarter of a century
archæology has made great strides. Our learned men can now read
Babylonian bricks and Chaldean tablets as easily as if they were
advertisements on galvanised iron. You may think you've been extremely
clever in turning the Professor into an animal, but you'll probably find
you've only made another mistake."

"How so?" inquired Fakrash.

"Well," said Horace, seeing his advantage, and pushing it
unscrupulously, "now, that, in your infinite wisdom, you have ordained
that he should be a mule, he naturally can't possess property. Therefore
all his effects will have to be sold, and amongst them will be that seal
of yours, which, like many other things in his collection, will probably
be bought up by the British Museum, where it will be examined and
commented upon by every Orientalist in Europe. I suppose you've thought
of all that?"

"O young man of marvellous sagacity!" said the Jinnee; "truly I had
omitted to consider these things, and thou hast opened my eyes in time.
For I will present myself unto this man-mule and adjure him to reveal
where he hath bestowed this seal, so that I may regain it."

"He can't do that, you know, so long as he remains a mule."

"I will endow him with speech for the purpose."

"Let me tell you this," said Horace: "he's in a very nasty temper just
now, naturally enough, and you won't get anything out of him until you
have restored him to human form. If you do that, he'll agree to
anything."

"Whether I restore him or not will depend not on me, but on the damsel
who is his daughter, and to whom thou art contracted in marriage. For
first of all I must speak with her."

"So long as I am present and you promise not to play any tricks," said
Horace, "I've no objection, for I believe, if you once saw her and heard
her plead for her poor father, you wouldn't have the heart to hold out
any longer. But you must give me your word that you'll behave yourself."

"Thou hast it," said the Jinnee; "I do but desire to see her on thine
account."

"Very well," agreed Horace; "but I really can't introduce you in that
turban--she'd be terrified. Couldn't you contrive to get yourself up in
commonplace English clothes, just for once--something that wouldn't
attract so much attention?"

"Will this satisfy thee?" inquired the Jinnee, as his green turban and
flowing robes suddenly resolved themselves into the conventional
chimney-pot hat, frock-coat, and trousers of modern civilisation.

He bore a painful resemblance in them to the kind of elderly gentleman
who comes on in the harlequinade to be bonneted by the clown; but Horace
was in no mood to be critical just then.

"That's better," he said encouragingly; "much better. Now," he added, as
he led the way to the hall and put on his own hat and overcoat, "we'll
go out and find a hansom and be at Kensington in less than twenty
minutes."

"We shall be there in less than twenty seconds," said the Jinnee,
seizing him by the arm above the elbow; and Horace found himself
suddenly carried up into the air and set down, gasping with surprise and
want of breath, on the pavement opposite the Futvoyes' door.

"I should just like to observe," he said, as soon as he could speak,
"that if we've been seen, we shall probably cause a sensation. Londoners
are not accustomed to seeing people skimming over the chimney-pots like
amateur rooks."

"Trouble not for that," said Fakrash, "for no mortal eyes are capable of
following our flight."

"I hope not," said Horace, "or I shall lose any reputation I have left.
I think," he added, "I'd better go in alone first and prepare them, if
you don't mind waiting outside. I'll come to the window and wave my
pocket-handkerchief when they're ready. And _do_ come in by the door
like an ordinary person, and ask the maidservant if you may see me."

"I will bear it in mind," answered the Jinnee, and suddenly sank, or
seemed to sink, through a chink in the pavement.

Horace, after ringing at the Futvoyes' door, was admitted and shown into
the drawing-room, where Sylvia presently came to him, looking as lovely
as ever, in spite of the pallor due to sleeplessness and anxiety. "It is
kind of you to call and inquire," she said, with the unnatural calm of
suppressed hysteria. "Dad is much the same this morning. He had a fairly
good night, and was able to take part of a carrot for breakfast--but
I'm afraid he has just remembered that he has to read a paper on
'Oriental Occultism' before the Asiatic Society this evening, and it's
worrying him a little.... Oh, Horace," she broke out, unexpectedly, "how
perfectly awful all this is! How _are_ we to bear it?"

"Don't give way, darling!" said Horace; "you will not have to bear it
much longer."

"It's all very well, Horace, but unless something is done _soon_ it will
be too late. We can't go _on_ keeping a mule in the study without the
servants suspecting something, and where are we to put poor, dear papa?
It's too ghastly to think of his having to be sent away to--to a Home of
Rest for Horses--and yet what _is_ to be done with him?... Why do you
come if you can't do anything?"

"I shouldn't be here unless I could bring you good news. You remember
what I told you about the Jinnee?"

"Remember!" cried Sylvia. "As if I could forget! Has he really come
back, Horace?"

"Yes. I think I have brought him to see that he has made a foolish
mistake in enchanting your unfortunate father, and he seems willing to
undo it on certain conditions. He is somewhere within call at this
moment, and will come in whenever I give the signal. But he wishes to
speak to you first."

"To _me_? Oh, no, Horace!" exclaimed Sylvia, recoiling. "I'd so much
rather not. I don't like things that have come out of brass bottles. I
shouldn't know what to say, and it would frighten me horribly."

"You must be brave, darling!" said Horace. "Remember that it depends on
you whether the Professor is to be restored or not. And there's nothing
alarming about old Fakrash, either, I've got him to put on ordinary
things, and he really doesn't look so bad in them. He's quite a mild,
amiable old noodle, and he'll do anything for you, if you'll only stroke
him down the right way. You _will_ see him, won't you, for your father's
sake?"

"If I must," said Sylvia, with a shudder, "I--I'll be as nice to him as
I can."

Horace went to the window and gave the signal, though there was no one
in sight. However, it was evidently seen, for the next moment there was
a resounding blow at the front door, and a little later Jessie, the
parlour-maid, announced "Mr. Fatrasher Larmash--to see Mr. Ventimore,"
and the Jinnee stalked gravely in, with his tall hat on his head.

"You are probably not aware of it, sir," said Horace, "but it is the
custom here to uncover in the presence of a lady." The Jinnee removed
his hat with both hands, and stood silent and impassive.

"Let me present you to Miss Sylvia Futvoye," Ventimore continued, "the
lady whose name you have already heard."

There was a momentary gleam in Fakrash's odd, slanting eyes as they
lighted on Sylvia's shrinking figure, but he made no acknowledgment of
the introduction.

"The damsel is not without comeliness," he remarked to Horace; "but
there are lovelier far than she."

"I didn't ask you for either criticisms or comparisons," said Ventimore,
sharply; "there is nobody in the world equal to Miss Futvoye, in my
opinion, and you will be good enough to remember that fact. She is
exceedingly distressed (as any dutiful daughter would be) by the cruel
and senseless trick you have played her father, and she begs that you
will rectify it at once. Don't you, Sylvia?"

"Yes, indeed!" said Sylvia, almost in a whisper, "if--if it isn't
troubling you too much!"

"I have been turning over thy words in my mind," said Fakrash to Horace,
still ignoring Sylvia, "and I am convinced that thou art right. Even if
the contents of the seal were known of all men, they would raise no
clamour about affairs that concern them not. Therefore it is nothing to
me in whose hands the seal may be. Dost thou not agree with me in this?"

"Of course I do," said Horace. "And it naturally follows that----"

"It naturally follows, as thou sayest," said the Jinnee, with a cunning
assumption of indifference, "that I have naught to gain by demanding
back the seal as the price of restoring this damsel's father to his
original form. Wherefore, so far as I am concerned, let him remain a
mule for ever; unless, indeed, thou art ready to comply with my
conditions."

"Conditions!" cried Horace, utterly unprepared for this conclusion.
"What can you possibly want from me? But state them. I'll agree to
anything, in reason!"

"I demand that thou shouldst renounce the hand of this damsel."

"That's out of all reason," said Horace, "and you know it. I will never
give her up, so long as she is willing to keep me."

"Maiden," said the Jinnee, addressing Sylvia for the first time, "the
matter rests with thee. Wilt thou release this my son from his contract,
since thou art no fit wife for such as he?"

"How can I," cried Sylvia, "when I love him and he loves me? What a
wicked tyrannical old thing you must be to expect it! I _can't_ give him
up."

"It is but giving up what can never be thine," said Fakrash. "And be not
anxious for him, for I will reward and console him a thousandfold for
the loss of thy society. A little while, and he shall remember thee no
more."

"Don't believe him, darling," said Horace; "you know me better than
that."

"Remember," said the Jinnee, "that by thy refusal thou wilt condemn thy
parent to remain a mule throughout all his days. Art thou so unnatural
and hard-hearted a daughter as to do this thing?"

"Oh, I couldn't!" cried Sylvia. "I can't let poor father remain a mule
all his life when one word--and yet what _am_ I to do? Horace, what
shall I say? Advise me.... Advise me!"

"Heaven help us both!" groaned Ventimore. "If I could only see the
right thing to do. Look here, Mr. Fakrash," he added, "this is a matter
that requires consideration. Will you relieve us of your presence for a
short time, while we talk it over?"

"With all my heart," said the Jinnee, in the most obliging manner in the
world, and vanished instantly.

"Now, darling," began Horace, after he had gone, "if that unspeakable
old scoundrel is really in earnest, there's no denying that he's got us
in an extremely tight place. But I can't bring myself to believe that he
_does_ mean it. I fancy he's only trying us. And what I want you to do
is not to consider me in the matter at all."

"How can I help it?" said poor Sylvia. "Horace, you--you don't _want_ to
be released, do you?"

"I?" said Horace, "when you are all I have in the world! That's so
likely, Sylvia! But we are bound to look facts in the face. To begin
with, even if this hadn't happened, your people wouldn't let our
engagement continue. For my prospects have changed again, dearest. I'm
even worse off than when we first met, for that confounded Jinnee has
contrived to lose my first and only client for me--the one thing worth
having he ever gave me." And he told her the story of the mushroom
palace and Mr. Wackerbath's withdrawal. "So you see, darling," he
concluded, "I haven't even a home to offer you; and if I had, it would
be miserably uncomfortable for you with that old Marplot continually
dropping in on us--especially if, as I'm afraid he has, he's taken some
unreasonable dislike to you."

"But surely you can talk him over?" said Sylvia; "you said you could do
anything you liked with him."

"I'm beginning to find," he replied, ruefully enough, "that he's not so
easily managed as I thought. And for the present, I'm afraid, if we are
to get the Professor out of this, that there's nothing for it but to
humour old Fakrash."

"Then you actually advise me to--to break it off?" she cried; "I never
thought you would do that!"

"For your own sake," said Horace; "for your father's sake. If _you_
won't, Sylvia, I _must_. And you will spare me that? Let us both agree
to part and--and trust that we shall be united some day."

"Don't try to deceive me or yourself, Horace," she said; "if we part
now, it will be for ever."

He had a dismal conviction that she was right. "We must hope for the
best," he said drearily; "Fakrash may have some motive in all this we
don't understand. Or he may relent. But part we must, for the present."

"Very well," she said. "If he restores dad, I will give you up. But not
unless."

"Hath the damsel decided?" asked the Jinnee, suddenly re-appearing; "for
the period of deliberation is past."

"Miss Futvoye and I," Horace answered for her, "are willing to consider
our engagement at an end, until you approve of its renewal, on condition
that you restore her father at once."

"Agreed!" said Fakrash. "Conduct me to him, and we will arrange the
matter without delay."

Outside they met Mrs. Futvoye on her way from the study. "You here,
Horace?" she exclaimed. "And who is this--gentleman?"

"This," said Horace, "is the--er--author of the Professor's misfortunes,
and he had come here at my request to undo his work."

"It _would_ be so kind of him!" exclaimed the distressed lady, who was
by this time far beyond either surprise or resentment. "I'm sure, if he
knew all we have gone through----!" and she led the way to her husband's
room.

As soon as the door was opened the Professor seemed to recognise his
tormentor in spite of his changed raiment, and was so powerfully
agitated that he actually reeled on his four legs, and "stood over" in
a lamentable fashion.

"O man of distinguished attainments!" began the Jinnee, "whom I have
caused, for reasons that are known unto thee, to assume the shape of a
mule, speak, I adjure thee, and tell me where thou hast deposited the
inscribed seal which is in thy possession."

The Professor spoke; and the effect of articulate speech proceeding from
the mouth of what was to all outward seeming an ordinary mule was
strange beyond description. "I'll see you damned first," he said
sullenly. "You can't do worse to me than you've done already!"

"As thou wilt," said Fakrash; "but unless I regain it, I will not
restore thee to what thou wast."

"Well, then," said the mule, savagely, "you'll find it in the top
right-hand drawer of my writing-table: the key is in that diorite bowl
on the mantelpiece."

The Jinnee unlocked the drawer, and took out the metal cap, which he
placed in the breast pocket of his incongruous frock-coat. "So far,
well," he said; "next thou must deliver up to me the transcription thou
hast made, and swear to preserve an inviolable secrecy regarding the
meaning thereof."

"Do you know what you're asking, sir?" said the mule, laying back his
ears viciously. "Do you think that to oblige you I'm going to suppress
one of the most remarkable discoveries of my whole scientific career?
Never, sir--never!"

"Since if thou refusest I shall assuredly deprive thee of speech once
more and leave thee a mule, as thou art now, of hideous appearance,"
said the Jinnee, "thou art like to gain little by a discovery which thou
wilt be unable to impart. However, the choice rests with thee."

The mule rolled his one eye, and showed all his teeth in a vicious
snarl. "You've got the whip-hand of me," he said, "and I may as well
give in. There's a transcript inside my blotting-case--it's the only
copy I've made."

Fakrash found the paper, which he rubbed into invisibility between his
palms, as any ordinary conjurer might do.

"Now raise thy right forefoot," he said, "and swear by all thou holdest
sacred never to divulge what thou hast learnt"--which oath the
Professor, in the vilest of tempers, took, clumsily enough.

"Good," said the Jinnee, with a grim smile. "Now let one of thy women
bring me a cup of fair water."

Sylvia went out, and came back with a cup of water. "It's filtered," she
said anxiously; "I don't know if that will do?"

"It will suffice," said Fakrash. "Let both the women withdraw."

"Surely," remonstrated Mrs. Futvoye, "you don't mean to turn his wife
and daughter out of the room at such a moment as this? We shall be
perfectly quiet, and we may even be of some help."

"Do as you're told, my dear!" snapped the ungrateful mule; "do as you're
told. You'll only be in the way here. Do you suppose he doesn't know his
own beastly business?"

They left accordingly; whereupon Fakrash took the cup--an ordinary
breakfast cup with a Greek key-border pattern in pale blue round the
top--and, drenching the mule with the contents, exclaimed, "Quit this
form and return to the form in which thou wast!"

For a dreadful moment or two it seemed as if no effect was to be
produced; the animal simply stood and shivered, and Ventimore began to
feel an agonising suspicion that the Jinnee really had, as he had first
asserted, forgotten how to perform this particular incantation.

All at once the mule reared, and began to beat the air frantically with
his fore-hoofs; after which he fell heavily backward into the nearest
armchair (which was, fortunately, a solid and capacious piece of
furniture) with his fore-legs hanging limply at his side, in a
semi-human fashion. There was a brief convulsion, and then, by some
gradual process unspeakably impressive to witness, the man seemed to
break through the mule, the mule became merged in the man--and Professor
Futvoye, restored to his own natural form and habit, sat gasping and
trembling in the chair before them.




CHAPTER XIV

"SINCE THERE'S NO HELP, COME, LET US KISS AND PART!"


As soon as the Professor seemed to have regained his faculties, Horace
opened the door and called in Sylvia and her mother, who were, as was
only to be expected, overcome with joy on seeing the head of the family
released from his ignoble condition of a singularly ill-favoured
quadruped.

"There, there," said the Professor, as he submitted to their embraces
and incoherent congratulations, "it's nothing to make a fuss about. I'm
quite myself again, as you can see. And," he added, with an unreasonable
outburst of ill-temper, "if one of you had only had the common sense to
think of such a simple remedy as sprinkling a little cold water over me
when I was first taken like that, I should have been spared a great deal
of unnecessary inconvenience. But that's always the way with women--lose
their heads the moment anything goes wrong! If I had not kept perfectly
cool myself--"

"It was very, very stupid of us not to think of it, papa," said Sylvia,
tactfully ignoring the fact that there was scarcely an undamaged article
in the room; "still, you know, if _we_ had thrown the water it mightn't
have had the same effect."

"I'm not in a condition to argue now," said her father; "you didn't
trouble to try it, and there's no more to be said."

"No more to be said!" exclaimed Fakrash. "O thou monster of ingratitude,
hast thou no thanks for him who hath delivered thee from thy
predicament?"

"As I am already indebted to you, sir," said the Professor, "for about
twenty-four hours of the most poignant and humiliating mental and bodily
anguish a human being can endure, inflicted for no valid reason that I
can discover, except the wanton indulgence of your unholy powers, I can
only say that any gratitude of which I am conscious is of a very
qualified description. As for you, Ventimore," he added, turning to
Horace, "I don't know--I can only guess at--the part you have played in
this wretched business; but in any case you will understand, once for
all, that all relations between us must cease."

"Papa," said Sylvia, tremulously, "Horace and I have already agreed
that--that we must separate."

"At my bidding," explained Fakrash, suavely; "for such an alliance would
be totally unworthy of his merits and condition."

This frankness was rather too much for the Professor, whose temper had
not been improved by his recent trials.

"Nobody asked for your opinion, sir!" he snapped. "A person who has only
recently been released from a term of long and, from all I have been
able to ascertain, well-deserved imprisonment, is scarcely entitled to
pose as an authority on social rank. Have the decency not to interfere
again with my domestic affairs."

"Excellent is the saying," remarked the imperturbable Jinnee, "'Let the
rat that is between the paws of the leopard observe rigidly all the
rules of politeness and refrain from words of provocation.' For to
return thee to the form of a mule once more would be no difficult
undertaking."

"I think I failed to make myself clear," the Professor hastened to
observe--"failed to make myself clear. I--I merely meant to congratulate
you on your fortunate escape from the consequences of what I--I don't
doubt was an error of justice. I--I am sure that, in the future, you
will employ your--your very remarkable abilities to better purpose, and
I would suggest that the greatest service you can do this unfortunate
young man here is to abstain from any further attempts to promote his
interests."

"Hear, hear!" Horace could not help throwing in, though in so discreet
an undertone that it was inaudible.

"Far be this from me," replied Fakrash. "For he has become unto me even
as a favourite son, whom I design to place upon the golden pinnacle of
felicity. Therefore, I have chosen for him a wife, who is unto this
damsel of thine as the full moon to the glow-worm, and as the bird of
Paradise to an unfledged sparrow. And the nuptials shall be celebrated
before many hours."

"Horace!" cried Sylvia, justly incensed, "why--_why_ didn't you tell me
this before?"

"Because," said the unhappy Horace, "this is the very first I've heard
of it. He's always springing some fresh surprise on me," he added, in a
whisper--"but they never come to anything much. And he can't marry me
against my will, you know."

"No," said Sylvia, biting her lip. "I never supposed he could do that,
Horace."

"I'll settle this at once," he replied. "Now, look here, Mr. Jinnee," he
added, "I don't know what new scheme you have got in your head--but if
you are proposing to marry me to anybody in particular----"

"Have I not informed thee that I have it in contemplation to obtain for
thee the hand of a King's daughter of marvellous beauty and
accomplishments?"

"You know perfectly well you never mentioned it before," said Horace,
while Sylvia gave a little low cry.

"Repine not, O damsel," counselled the Jinnee, "since it is for his
welfare. For, though as yet he believeth it not, when he beholds the
resplendent beauty of her countenance he will swoon away with delight
and forget thy very existence."

"I shall do nothing of the sort," said Horace, savagely. "Just
understand that I don't intend to marry any Princess. You may prevent
me--in fact, you _have_--from marrying this lady, but you can't force me
to marry anybody else. I defy you!"

"When thou hast seen thy bride's perfections thou wilt need no
compulsion," said Fakrash. "And if thou shouldst refuse, know this: that
thou wilt be exposing those who are dear to thee in this household to
calamities of the most unfortunate description."

The awful vagueness of this threat completely crushed Horace; he could
not think, he did not even dare to imagine, what consequences he might
bring upon his beloved Sylvia and her helpless parents by persisting in
his refusal.

"Give me time," he said heavily; "I want to talk this over with you."

"Pardon me, Ventimore," said the Professor, with acidulous politeness;
"but, interesting as the discussion of your matrimonial arrangements is
to you and your--a--protector, I should greatly prefer that you choose
some more fitting place for arriving at a decision which is in the
circumstances a foregone conclusion. I am rather tired and upset, and I
should be obliged if you and this gentleman could bring this most trying
interview to a close as soon as you conveniently can."

"You hear, Mr. Fakrash?" said Horace, between his teeth, "it is quite
time we left. If you go at once, I will follow you very shortly."

"Thou wilt find me awaiting thee," answered the Jinnee, and, to Mrs.
Futvoye's and Sylvia's alarm, disappeared through one of the bookcases.

"Well," said Horace, gloomily, "you see how I'm situated? That obstinate
old devil has cornered me. I'm done for!"

"Don't say that," said the Professor; "you appear to be on the eve of a
most brilliant alliance, in which I am sure you have our best
wishes--the best wishes of us all," he added pointedly.

"Sylvia," said Horace, still lingering, "before I go, tell me that,
whatever I may have to do, you will understand that--that it will be for
your sake!"

"Please don't talk like that," she said. "We may never see one another
again. Don't let my last recollection of you be of--of a hypocrite,
Horace!"

"A hypocrite!" he cried. "Sylvia, this is too much! What have I said or
done to make you think me that?"

"Oh, I am not so simple as you suppose, Horace," she replied. "I see now
why all this has happened: why poor dad was tormented; why you insisted
on my setting you free. But I would have released you without _that_!
Indeed, all this elaborate artifice wasn't in the least necessary!"

"You believe I was an accomplice in that old fool's plot?" he said. "You
believe me such a cur as that?"

"I don't blame you," she said. "I don't believe you could help yourself.
He can make you do whatever he chooses. And then, you are so rich now,
it is natural that you should want to marry some one--some one more
suited to you--like this lovely Princess of yours."

"Of mine!" groaned the exasperated Horace. "When I tell you I've never
even seen her! As if any Princess in the world would marry me to please
a Jinnee out of a brass bottle! And if she did, Sylvia, you can't
believe that any Princess would make me forget you!"

"It depends so very much on the Princess," was all Sylvia could be
induced to say.

"Well," said Horace, "if that's all the faith you have in me, I suppose
it's useless to say any more. Good-bye, Mrs. Futvoye; good-bye,
Professor. I wish I could tell you how deeply I regret all the trouble I
have brought on you by my own folly. All I can say is, that I will bear
anything in future rather than expose you or any of you to the smallest
risk."

"I trust, indeed," said the Professor, stiffly, "that you will use all
the influence at your command to secure me from any repetition of an
experience that might well have unmanned a less equable temperament than
my own."

"Good-bye, Horace," said Mrs. Futvoye, more kindly. "I believe you are
more to be pitied than blamed, whatever others may think. And _I_ don't
forget--if Anthony does--that, but for you, he might, instead of sitting
there comfortably in his armchair, be lashing out with his hind legs and
kicking everything to pieces at this very moment!"

"I deny that I lashed out!" said the Professor. "My--a--hind quarters
may have been under imperfect control--but I never lost my reasoning
powers or my good humour for a single instant. I can say that
truthfully."

If the Professor could say that truthfully amidst the general wreck in
which he sat, like another Marius, he had little to learn in the gentle
art of self-deception; but there was nothing to gain by contradicting
him then.

"Good-bye, Sylvia," said Horace, and held out his hand.

"Good-bye," she said, without offering to take it or look at him--and,
after a miserable pause, he left the study. But before he had reached
the front door he heard a swish and swirl of drapery behind him, and
felt her light hand on his arm. "Ah, no!" she said, clinging to him, "I
can't let you go like this. I didn't mean all the things I said just
now. I _do_ believe in you, Horace--at least, I'll try hard to.... And I
shall always, _always_ love you, Horace.... I shan't care--very
much--even if you do forget me, so long as you are happy.... Only don't
be _too_ happy. Think of me sometimes!"

"I shall _not_ be too happy," he said, as he held her close to his heart
and kissed her pathetically drawn mouth and flushed cheeks. "And I shall
think of you always."

"And you won't fall in love with your Princess?" entreated Sylvia, at
the end of her altruism. "Promise!"

"If I am ever provided with one," he replied, "I shall loathe her--for
not being you. But don't let us lose heart, darling. There must be some
way of talking that old idiot out of this nonsense and bringing him
round to common sense. I'm not going to give in just yet!"

These were brave words--but, as they both felt, the situation had little
enough to warrant them, and, after one last long embrace, they parted,
and he was no sooner on the steps than he felt himself caught up as
before and borne through the air with breathless speed, till he was set
down, he could not have well said how, in a chair in his own
sitting-room at Vincent Square.

"Well," he said, looking at the Jinnee, who was standing opposite with a
smile of intolerable complacency, "I suppose you feel satisfied with
yourself over this business?"

"It hath indeed been brought to a favourable conclusion," said Fakrash.
"Well hath the poet written----"

"I don't think I can stand any more 'Elegant Extracts' this afternoon,"
interrupted Horace. "Let us come to business. You seem," he went on,
with a strong effort to keep himself in hand, "to have formed some plan
for marrying me to a King's daughter. May I ask you for full
particulars?"

"No honour and advancement can be in excess of thy deserts," answered
the Jinnee.

"Very kind of you to say so--but you are probably unaware that, as
society is constituted at the present time, the objections to such an
alliance would be quite insuperable."

"For me," said the Jinnee, "few obstacles are insuperable. But speak thy
mind freely."

"I will," said Horace. "To begin with, no European Princess of the Blood
Royal would entertain the idea for a moment. And if she did, she would
forfeit her rank and cease to be a Princess, and I should probably be
imprisoned in a fortress for _lèse majesté_ or something."

"Dismiss thy fears, for I do not propose to unite thee to any Princess
that is born of mortals. The bride I intend for thee is a Jinneeyeh; the
peerless Bedeea-el-Jemal, daughter of my kinsman Shahyal, the Ruler of
the Blue Jann."

"Oh, is she, though?" said Horace, blankly. "I'm exceedingly obliged,
but, whatever may be the lady's attractions----"

"Her nose," recited the Jinnee, with enthusiasm, "is like unto the keen
edge of a polished sword; her hair resembleth jewels, and her cheeks are
ruddy as wine. She hath heavy lips, and when she looketh aside she
putteth to shame the wild cows...."

"My good, excellent friend," said Horace, by no means impressed by this
catalogue of charms, "one doesn't marry to mortify wild cows."

"When she walketh with a vacillating gait," continued Fakrash, as though
he had not been interrupted, "the willow branch itself turneth green
with envy."

"Personally," said Horace, "a waddle doesn't strike me as particularly
fascinating--it's quite a matter of taste. Do you happen to have seen
this enchantress lately?"

"My eyes have not been refreshed by her manifold beauties since I was
enclosed by Suleyman--whose name be accursed--in the brass bottle of
which thou knowest. Why dost thou ask?"

"Merely because it occurred to me that, after very nearly three thousand
years, your charming kinswoman may--well, to put it as mildly as
possible, not have altogether escaped the usual effects of Time. I mean,
she must be getting on, you know!"

"O, silly-bearded one!" said the Jinnee, in half-scornful rebuke; "art
thou, then, ignorant that we of the Jinn are not as mortals, that we
should feel the ravages of age?"

"Forgive me if I'm personal," said Horace; "but surely your own hair
and beard might be described as rather inclining to grey."

"Not from age," said Fakrash, "This cometh from long confinement."

"I see," said Horace. "Like the Prisoner of Chillon. Well, assuming that
the lady in question is still in the bloom of early youth, I see one
fatal difficulty to becoming her suitor."

"Doubtless," said the Jinnee, "thou art referring to Jarjarees, the son
of Rejmoos, the son of Iblees?"

"No, I wasn't," said Horace; "because, you see, I don't remember having
ever heard of him. However, he's _another_ fatal difficulty. That makes
two of them."

"Surely I have spoken of him to thee as my deadliest foe? It is true
that he is a powerful and vindictive Efreet, who hath long persecuted
the beauteous Bedeea with hateful attentions. Yet it may be possible, by
good fortune, to overthrow him."

"Then I gather that any suitor for Bedeea's hand would be looked upon as
a rival by the amiable Jarjarees?"

"Far is he from being of an amiable disposition," answered the Jinnee,
simply, "and he would be so transported by rage and jealousy that he
would certainly challenge thee to mortal combat."

"Then that settles it," said Horace. "I don't think any one can fairly
call me a coward, but I do draw the line at fighting an Efreet for the
hand of a lady I've never seen. How do I know he'll fight fair?"

"He would probably appear unto thee first in the form of a lion, and if
he could not thus prevail against thee, transform himself into a
serpent, and then into a buffalo or some other wild beast."

"And I should have to tackle the entire menagerie?" said Horace. "Why,
my dear sir, I should never get beyond the lion!"

"I would assist thee to assume similar transformations," said the
Jinnee, "and thus thou mayst be enabled to defeat him. For I burn with
desire to behold mine enemy reduced to cinders."

"It's much more likely that you would have to sweep _me_ up!" said
Horace, who had a strong conviction that anything in which the Jinnee
was concerned would be bungled somehow. "And if you're so anxious to
destroy this Jarjarees, why don't you challenge him to meet you in some
quiet place in the desert and settle him yourself? It's much more in
your line than it is in mine!"

He was not without hopes that Fakrash might act on this suggestion, and
that so he would be relieved of him in the simplest and most
satisfactory way; but any such hopes were as usual doomed to
disappointment.

"It would be of no avail," said the Jinnee, "for it hath been written of
old that Jarjarees shall not perish save by the hand of a mortal. And I
am persuaded that thou wilt turn out to be that mortal, since thou art
both strong and fearless, and, moreover, it is also predestined that
Bedeea shall wed one of the sons of men."

"Then," said Horace, feeling that this line of defence must be
abandoned, "I fall back on objection number one. Even if Jarjarees were
obliging enough to retire in my favour, I should still decline to become
the--a--consort of a Jinneeyeh whom I've never seen, and don't love."

"Thou hast heard of her incomparable charms, and verily the ear may love
before the eye."

"It may," admitted Horace, "but neither of _my_ ears is the least in
love at present."

"These reasons are of no value," said Fakrash, "and if thou hast none
better----"

"Well," said Ventimore, "I think I have. You profess to be anxious
to--to requite the trifling service I rendered you, though hitherto,
you'll admit yourself, you haven't made a very brilliant success of it.
But, putting the past aside," he continued, with a sudden dryness in his
throat; "putting the past aside, I ask you to consider what possible
benefit or happiness such a match as this--I'm afraid I'm not so
fortunate as to secure your attention?" he broke off, as he observed the
Jinnee's eyes beginning to film over in the disagreeable manner
characteristic of certain birds.

"Proceed," said Fakrash, unskinning his eyes for a second; "I am
hearkening unto thee."

"It seems to me," stammered Horace, inconsequently enough, "that all
that time inside a bottle--well, you can't call it _experience_ exactly;
and possibly in the interval you've forgotten all you knew about
feminine nature. I think you _must_ have."

"It is not possible that such knowledge should be forgotten," said the
Jinnee, resenting this imputation in quite a human way. "Thy words
appear to me to lack sense. Interpret them, I pray thee."

"Why," explained Horace, "you don't mean to tell me that this young and
lovely relation of yours, a kind of immortal, and--and with the devil's
own pride, would be gratified by your proposal to bestow her hand upon
an insignificant and unsuccessful London architect? She'd turn up that
sharp and polished nose of hers at the mere idea of so unequal a match!"

"An excellent rank is that conferred by wealth," remarked the Jinnee.

"But I'm _not_ rich, and I've already declined any riches from you,"
said Horace. "And, what's more to the point, I'm perfectly and
hopelessly obscure. If you had the slightest sense of humour--which I
fear you have not--you would at once perceive the absurdity of proposing
to unite a radiant, ethereal, superhuman being to a commonplace
professional nonentity in a morning coat and a tall hat. It's really too
ridiculous!"

"What thou hast just said is not altogether without wisdom," said
Fakrash, to whom this was evidently a new point of view. "Art thou,
indeed, so utterly unknown?"

"Unknown?" repeated Horace; "I should rather think I was! I'm simply an
inconsiderable unit in the population of the vastest city in the world;
or, rather, not a unit--a cipher. And, don't you see, a man to be worthy
of your exalted kinswoman ought to be a celebrity. There are plenty of
them about."

"What meanest thou by a celebrity?" inquired Fakrash, falling into the
trap more readily than Horace had ventured to hope.

"Oh, well, a distinguished person, whose name is on everybody's lips,
who is honoured and praised by all his fellow-citizens. Now, _that_ kind
of man no Jinneeyeh could look down upon."

"I perceive," said Fakrash, thoughtfully. "Yes, I was in danger of
committing a rash action. How do men honour such distinguished
individuals in these days?"

"They generally overfeed them," said Horace. "In London the highest
honour a hero can be paid is to receive the freedom of the City, which
is only conferred in very exceptional cases, and for some notable
service. But, of course, there are other sorts of celebrities, as you
could see if you glanced through the society papers."

"I cannot believe that thou, who seemest a gracious and talented young
man, can be indeed so obscure as thou hast represented."

"My good sir, any of the flowers that blush unseen in the desert air, or
the gems concealed in ocean caves, so excellently described by one of
our poets, could give me points and a beating in the matter of
notoriety. I'll make you a sporting offer. There are over five million
inhabitants in this London of ours. If you go out into the streets and
ask the first five hundred you meet whether they know me, I don't mind
betting you--what shall I say? a new hat--that you won't find half a
dozen who've ever even heard of my existence. Why not go out and see for
yourself?"

To his surprise and gratification the Jinnee took this seriously. "I
will go forth and make inquiry," he said, "for I desire further
enlightenment concerning thy statements. But, remember," he added:
"should I still require thee to wed the matchless Bedeea-el-Jemal, and
thou shouldst disobey me, thou wilt bring disaster, not on thine own
head, but on those thou art most desirous of protecting."

"Yes, so you told me before," said Horace, brusquely. "Good evening."
But Fakrash was already gone. In spite of all he had gone through and
the unknown difficulties before him, Ventimore was seized with what
Uncle Remus calls "a spell of the dry grins" at the thought of the
probable replies that the Jinnee would meet with in the course of his
inquiries. "I'm afraid he won't be particularly impressed by the
politeness of a London crowd," he thought; "but at least they'll
convince him that I am not exactly a prominent citizen. Then he'll give
up this idiotic match of his--I don't know, though. He's such a
pig-headed old fool that he may stick to it all the same. I may find
myself encumbered with a Jinneeyeh bride several centuries my senior
before I know where I am. No, I forget; there's the jealous Jarjarees to
be polished off first. I seem to remember something about a quick-change
combat with an Efreet in the "Arabian Nights." I may as well look it up,
and see what may be in store for me."

And after dinner he went to his shelves and took down Lane's
three-volume edition of "The Arabian Nights," which he set himself to
study with a new interest. It was long since he had looked into these
wondrous tales, old beyond all human calculation, and fresher, even now,
than the most modern of successful romances. After all, he was tempted
to think, they might possess quite as much historical value as many
works with graver pretentions to accuracy.

He found a full account of the combat with the Efreet in "The Story of
the Second Royal Mendicant" in the first volume, and was unpleasantly
surprised to discover that the Efreet's name was actually given as
"Jarjarees, the son of Rejmoos, the son of Iblees"--evidently the same
person to whom Fakrash had referred as his bitterest foe. He was
described as "of hideous aspect," and had, it seemed, not only carried
off the daughter of the Lord of the Ebony Island on her wedding night,
but, on discovering her in the society of the Royal Mendicant, had
revenged himself by striking off her hands, her feet, and her head, and
transforming his human rival into an ape. "Between this fellow and old
Fakrash," he reflected ruefully, at this point, "I seem likely to have a
fairly lively time of it!"

He read on till he reached the memorable encounter between the King's
daughter and Jarjarees, who presented himself "in a most hideous shape,
with hands like winnowing forks, and legs like masts, and eyes like
burning torches"--which was calculated to unnerve the stoutest novice.
The Efreet began by transforming himself from a lion to a scorpion, upon
which the Princess became a serpent; then he changed to an eagle, and
she to a vulture; he to a black cat, and she to a cock; he to a fish,
and she to a larger fish still.

"If Fakrash can shove me through all that without a fatal hitch
somewhere," Ventimore told himself, "I shall be agreeably disappointed
in him," But, after reading a few more lines, he cheered up. For the
Efreet finished as a flame, and the Princess as a "body of fire." "And
when we looked towards him," continued the narrator, "we perceived that
he had become a heap of ashes."

"Come," said Horace to himself, "that puts Jarjarees out of action, any
way! The odd thing is that Fakrash should never have heard of it."

But, as he saw on reflection, it was not so very odd, after all, as the
incident had probably happened after the Jinnee had been consigned to
his brass bottle, where intelligence of any kind would be most unlikely
to reach him.

He worked steadily through the whole of the second volume and part of
the third; but, although he picked up a certain amount of information
upon Oriental habits and modes of thought and speech which might come in
useful later, it was not until he arrived at the 24th Chapter of the
third volume that his interest really revived.

For the 24th Chapter contained "The Story of Seyf-el-Mulook and
Bedeea-el-Jemal," and it was only natural that he should be anxious to
know all that there was to know concerning the antecedents of one who
might be his _fiancée_ before long. He read eagerly.

Bedeea, it appeared, was the lovely daughter of Shahyal, one of the
Kings of the Believing Jann; her father--not Fakrash himself, as the
Jinnee had incorrectly represented--had offered her in marriage to no
less a personage than King Solomon himself, who, however, had preferred
the Queen of Sheba. Seyf, the son of the King of Egypt, afterwards fell
desperately in love with Bedeea, but she and her grandmother both
declared that between mankind and the Jann there could be no agreement.

"And Seyf was a King's son!" commented Horace. "I needn't alarm myself.
She wouldn't be likely to have anything to say to _me_. It's just as I
told Fakrash."

His heart grew lighter still as he came to the end, for he learnt that,
after many adventures which need not be mentioned here, the devoted Seyf
did actually succeed in gaining the proud Bedeea as his wife. "Even
Fakrash could not propose to marry me to some one who has a husband
already," he thought. "Still, she _may_ be a widow!"

To his relief, however, the conclusion ran thus; "Seyf-el-Mulook lived
with Bedeea-el-Jemal a most pleasant and agreeable life ... until they
were visited by the terminator of delights and the separator of
companions."

"If that means anything at all," he reasoned, "it means that Seyf and
Bedeea are both deceased. Even Jinneeyeh seem to be mortal. Or perhaps
she became so by marrying a mortal; I dare say that Fakrash himself
wouldn't have lasted all this time if he hadn't been bottled, like a
tinned tomato. But I'm glad I found this out, because Fakrash is
evidently unaware of it, and, if he _should_ persist in any more of this
nonsense, I think I see my way now to getting the better of him."

So, with renewed hope and in vastly improved spirits, he went to bed and
was soon sound asleep.




CHAPTER XV

BLUSHING HONOURS


It was rather late the next morning when Ventimore opened his eyes, to
discover the Jinnee standing by the foot of his bed. "Oh, it's _you_, is
it?" he said sleepily. "How did you--a--get on last night?"

"I gained such information as I desired," said Fakrash, guardedly; "and
now, for the last time, I am come to ask thee whether thou wilt still
persist in refusing to wed the illustrious Bedeea-el-Jemal? And have a
care how thou answerest."

"So you haven't given up the idea?" said Horace. "Well, since you make
such a point of it, I'll meet you as far as this. If you produce the
lady, and she consents to marry me, I won't decline the honour. But
there's one condition I really _must_ insist on."

"It is not for thee to make stipulations. Still, yet this once I will
hear thee."

"I'm sure you'll see that it's only fair. Supposing, for any reason, you
can't persuade the Princess to meet me within a reasonable time--shall
we say a week?----"

"Thou shalt be admitted to her presence within twenty-four hours," said
the Jinnee.

"That's better still. Then, if I don't see her within twenty-four hours,
I am to be at liberty to infer that the negotiations are off, and I may
marry anybody else I please, without any opposition from you? Is that
understood?"

"It is agreed," said Fakrash, "for I am confident that Bedeea will
accept thee joyfully."

"We shall see," said Horace. "But it might be as well if you went and
prepared her a little. I suppose you know where to find her--and you've
only twenty-four hours, you know."

"More than is needed," answered the Jinnee, with such childlike
confidence, that Horace felt almost ashamed of so easy a victory. "But
the sun is already high. Arise, my son, put on these robes"--and with
this he flung on the bed the magnificent raiment which Ventimore had
last worn on the night of his disastrous entertainment--"and when thou
hast broken thy fast, prepare to accompany me."

"Before I agree to that," said Horace, sitting up in bed, "I should like
to know where you're taking me to."

"Obey me without demur," said Fakrash, "or thou knowest the
consequences."

It seemed to Horace that it was as well to humour him, and he got up
accordingly, washed and shaved, and, putting on his dazzling robe of
cloth-of-gold thickly sewn with gems, he joined Fakrash--who, by the
way, was similarly, if less gorgeously, arrayed--in the sitting-room, in
a state of some mystification.

"Eat quickly," commanded the Jinnee, "for the time is short." And
Horace, after hastily disposing of a cold poached egg and a cup of
coffee, happened to go to the windows.

"Good Heavens!" he cried. "What does all this mean?"

He might well ask. On the opposite side of the road, by the railings of
the square, a large crowd had collected, all staring at the house in
eager expectation. As they caught sight of him they raised a cheer,
which caused him to retreat in confusion, but not before he had seen a
great golden chariot with six magnificent coal-black horses, and a suite
of swarthy attendants in barbaric liveries, standing by the pavement
below. "Whose carriage is that?" he asked.

"It belongs to thee," said the Jinnee; "descend then, and make thy
progress in it through the City."

"I will not," said Horace. "Even to oblige you I simply can't drive
along the streets in a thing like the band-chariot of a travelling
circus."

"It is necessary," declared Fakrash. "Must I again recall to thee the
penalty of disobedience?"

"Oh, very well," said Horace, irritably. "If you insist on my making a
fool of myself, I suppose I must. But where am I to drive, and why?"

"That," replied Fakrash, "thou shalt discover at the fitting moment."
And so, amidst the shouts of the spectators, Ventimore climbed up into
the strange-looking vehicle, while the Jinnee took his seat by his side.
Horace had a parting glimpse of Mr. and Mrs. Rapkin's respective noses
flattened against the basement window, and then two dusky slaves mounted
to a seat at the back of the chariot, and the horses started off at a
stately trot in the direction of Rochester Row.

"I think you might tell me what all this means," he said. "You've no
conception what an ass I feel, stuck up here like this!"

"Dismiss bashfulness from thee, since all this is designed to render
thee more acceptable in the eyes of the Princess Bedeea," said the
Jinnee.

Horace said no more, though he could not but think that this parade
would be thrown away.

But as they turned into Victoria Street and seemed to be heading
straight for the Abbey, a horrible thought occurred to him. After all,
his only authority for the marriage and decease of Bedeea was the
"Arabian Nights," which was not unimpeachable evidence. What if she were
alive and waiting for the arrival of the bridegroom? No one but Fakrash
would have conceived such an idea as marrying him to a Jinneeyeh in
Westminster Abbey; but he was capable of any extravagance, and there
were apparently no limits to his power.

"Mr. Fakrash," he said hoarsely, "surely this isn't my--my wedding day?
You're not going to have the ceremony _there_?"

"Nay," said the Jinnee, "be not impatient. For this edifice would be
totally unfitted for the celebration of such nuptials as thine."

As he spoke, the chariot left the Abbey on the right and turned down the
Embankment. The relief was so intense that Horace's spirits rose
irrepressibly. It was absurd to suppose that even Fakrash could have
arranged the ceremony in so short a time. He was merely being taken for
a drive, and fortunately his best friends could not recognise him in his
Oriental disguise. And it was a glorious morning, with a touch of frost
in the air and a sky of streaky turquoise and pale golden clouds; the
broad river glittered in the sunshine; the pavements were lined with
admiring crowds, and the carriage rolled on amidst frantic enthusiasm,
like some triumphal car.

"How they're cheering us!" said Horace. "Why, they couldn't make more
row for the Lord Mayor himself."

"What is this Lord Mayor of whom thou speakest?" inquired Fakrash.

"The Lord Mayor?" said Horace. "Oh, he's unique. There's nobody in the
world quite like him. He administers the law, and if there's any
distress in any part of the earth he relieves it. He entertains monarchs
and Princes and all kinds of potentates at his banquets, and altogether
he's a tremendous swell."

"Hath he dominion over the earth and the air and all that is therein?"

"Within his own precincts, I believe he has," said Horace, rather
lazily, "but I really don't know precisely how wide his powers are." He
was vainly trying to recollect whether such matters as sky-signs,
telephones, and telegraphs in the City were within the Lord Mayor's
jurisdiction or the County Council's.

Fakrash remained silent just as they were driving underneath Charing
Cross Railway Bridge, when he started perceptibly at the thunder of the
trains overhead and the piercing whistles of the engines. "Tell me," he
said, clutching Horace by the arm, "what meaneth this?"

"You don't mean to say," said Horace, "that you have been about London
all these days, and never noticed things like these before?"

"Till now," said the Jinnee, "I have had no leisure to observe them and
discover their nature."

"Well," said Horace, anxious to let the Jinnee see that he had not the
monopoly of miracles, "since your days we have discovered how to tame or
chain the great forces of Nature and compel them to do our will. We
control the Spirits of Earth, Air, Fire, and Water, and make them give
us light and heat, carry our messages, fight our quarrels for us,
transport us wherever we wish to go, with a certainty and precision that
throw even your performances, my dear sir, entirely into the shade."

Considering what a very large majority of civilised persons would be as
powerless to construct the most elementary machine as to create the
humblest kind of horse, it is not a little odd how complacently we
credit ourselves with all the latest achievements of our generation.
Most of us accept the amazement of the simple-minded barbarian on his
first introduction to modern inventions as a gratifying personal
tribute: we feel a certain superiority, even if we magnanimously refrain
from boastfulness. And yet our own particular share in these discoveries
is limited to making use of them under expert guidance, which any
barbarian, after overcoming his first terror, is quite as competent to
do as we are.

It is a harmless vanity enough, and especially pardonable in Ventimore's
case, when it was so desirable to correct any tendency to "uppishness"
on the part of the Jinnee.

"And doth the Lord Mayor dispose of these forces at his will?" inquired
Fakrash, on whom Ventimore's explanation had evidently produced some
impression.

"Certainly," said Horace; "whenever he has occasion."

The Jinnee seemed engrossed in his own thoughts, for he said no more
just then.

They were now nearing St. Paul's Cathedral, and Horace's first suspicion
returned with double force.

"Mr. Fakrash, answer me," he said. "Is this my wedding day or not? If it
is, it's time I was told!"

"Not yet," said the Jinnee, enigmatically, and indeed it proved to be
another false alarm, for they turned down Cannon Street and towards the
Mansion House.

"Perhaps you can tell me why we're going through Victoria Street, and
what all this crowd has come out for?" asked Ventimore. For the throng
was denser than ever; the people surged and swayed in serried ranks
behind the City police, and gazed with a wonder and awe that for once
seemed to have entirely silenced the Cockney instinct of _persiflage_.

"For what else but to do thee honour?" answered Fakrash.

"What bosh!" said Horace. "They mistake me for the Shah or somebody--and
no wonder, in this get-up."

"Not so," said the Jinnee. "Thy names are familiar to them."

Horace glanced up at the hastily improvised decorations; on one large
strip of bunting which spanned the street he read: "Welcome to the
City's most distinguished guest!" "They can't mean me," he thought; and
then another legend caught his eye: "Well done, Ventimore!" And an
enthusiastic householder next door had burst into poetry and displayed
the couplet--


    "Would we had twenty more
    Like Horace Ventimore!"


"They _do_ mean me!" he exclaimed. "Now, Mr. Fakrash, _will_ you kindly
explain what tomfoolery you've been up to now? I know you're at the
bottom of this business."

It struck him that the Jinnee was slightly embarrassed. "Didst thou not
say," he replied, "that he who should receive the freedom of the City
from his fellow-men would be worthy of Bedeea-el-Jemal?"

"I may have said something of the sort. But, good heavens! you don't
mean that you have contrived that _I_ should receive the freedom of the
City?"

"It was the easiest affair possible," said the Jinnee, but he did not
attempt to meet Horace's eye.

"Was it, though?" said Horace, in a white rage. "I don't want to be
inquisitive, but I should like to know what I've done to deserve it?"

"Why trouble thyself with the reason? Let it suffice thee that such
honour is bestowed upon thee."

By this time the chariot had crossed Cheapside and was entering King
Street.

"This really won't do!" urged Horace. "It's not fair to me. Either I've
done something, or you must have made the Corporation _believe_ I've
done something, to be received like this. And, as we shall be in the
Guildhall in a very few seconds, you may as well tell me what it is!"

"Regarding that matter," replied the Jinnee, in some confusion, "I am
truly as ignorant as thyself."

As he spoke they drove through some temporary wooden gates into the
courtyard, where the Honourable Artillery Company presented arms to
them, and the carriage drew up before a large marquee decorated with
shields and clustered banners.

"Well, Mr. Fakrash," said Horace, with suppressed fury, as he alighted,
"you have surpassed yourself this time. You've got me into a nice
scrape, and you'll have to pull me through it as well as you can."

"Have no uneasiness," said the Jinnee, as he accompanied his _protégé_
into the marquee, which was brilliant with pretty women in smart frocks,
officers in scarlet tunics and plumed hats, and servants in State
liveries.

Their entrance was greeted by a politely-subdued buzz of applause and
admiration, and an official, who introduced himself as the Prime Warden
of the Candlestick-makers' Company, advanced to meet them. "The Lord
Mayor will receive you in the library," he said. "If you will have the
kindness to follow me----"

Horace followed him mechanically. "I'm in for it now," he thought,
"whatever it is. If I can only trust Fakrash to back me up--but I'm
hanged if I don't believe he's more nervous than I am!"

As they came into the noble Library of the Guildhall a fine string band
struck up, and Horace, with the Jinnee in his rear, made his way through
a lane of distinguished spectators towards a dais, on the steps of
which, in his gold-trimmed robes and black-feather hat, stood the Lord
Mayor, with his sword and mace-bearers on either hand, and behind him a
row of beaming sheriffs.

A truly stately and imposing figure did the Chief Magistrate for that
particular year present: tall, dignified, with a lofty forehead whose
polished temples reflected the light, an aquiline nose, and piercing
black eyes under heavy white eyebrows, a frosty pink in his wrinkled
cheeks, and a flowing silver beard with a touch of gold still lingering
under the lower lip: he seemed, as he stood there, a worthy
representative of the greatest and richest city in the world.

Horace approached the steps with an unpleasant sensation of weakness at
the knees, and no sort of idea what he was expected to do or say when he
arrived.

And, in his perplexity, he turned for support and guidance to his
self-constituted mentor--only to discover that the Jinnee, whose
short-sightedness and ignorance had planted him in this present false
position, had mysteriously and perfidiously disappeared, and left him to
grapple with the situation single-handed.




CHAPTER XVI

A KILLING FROST


Fortunately for Ventimore, the momentary dismay he had felt on
finding himself deserted by his unfathomable Jinnee at the very
outset of the ceremony passed unnoticed, as the Prime Warden of the
Candlestick-makers' Company immediately came to his rescue by briefly
introducing him to the Lord Mayor, who, with dignified courtesy, had
descended to the lowest step of the dais to receive him.

"Mr. Ventimore," said the Chief Magistrate, cordially, as he pressed
Horace's hand, "you must allow me to say that I consider this one of the
greatest privileges--if not _the_ greatest privilege--that have fallen
to my lot during a term of office in which I have had the honour of
welcoming more than the usual number of illustrious visitors."

"My Lord Mayor," said Horace, with absolute sincerity, "you really
overwhelm me. I--I only wish I could feel that I had done anything to
deserve this--this magnificent compliment!"

"Ah!" replied the Lord Mayor, in a paternally rallying tone. "Modest, my
dear sir, I perceive. Like all truly great men! A most admirable trait!
Permit me to present you to the Sheriffs."

The Sheriffs appeared highly delighted. Horace shook hands with both of
them; indeed, in the flurry of the moment he very nearly offered to do
so with the Sword and Mace bearers as well, but their hands were, as it
happened, otherwise engaged.

"The actual presentation," said the Lord Mayor, "takes place in the
Great Hall, as you are doubtless aware."

"I--I have been given to understand so," said Horace, with a sinking
heart--for he had begun to hope that the worst was over.

"But before we adjourn," said his host, "you will let me tempt you to
partake of some slight refreshment--just a snack?"

Horace was not hungry, but it occurred to him that he might get through
the ceremony with more credit after a glass of champagne; so he accepted
the invitation, and was conducted to an extemporised buffet at one end
of the Library, where he fortified himself for the impending ordeal with
a _caviare_ sandwich and a bumper of the driest champagne in the
Corporation cellars.

"They talk of abolishing us," said the Lord Mayor, as he took an anchovy
on toast; "but I maintain, Mr. Ventimore--I maintain that we, with our
ancient customs, our time-honoured traditions, form a link with the
past, which a wise statesman will preserve, if I may employ a somewhat
vulgar term, untinkered with."

Horace agreed, remembering a link with a far more ancient past with
which he devoutly wished he had refrained from tinkering.

"Talking of ancient customs," the Lord Mayor continued, with an odd
blend of pride and apology, "you will shortly have an illustration of
our antiquated procedure, which may impress you as quaint."

Horace, feeling absolutely idiotic, murmured that he felt sure it would
do that.

"Before presenting you for the freedom, the Prime Warden and five
officials of the Candlestick-makers' Company will give their testimony
as compurgators in your favour, making oath that you are 'a man of good
name and fame,' and that (you will be amused at this, Mr.
Ventimore)--that you 'do desire the freedom of this city, whereby to
defraud the Queen or the City.' Ha, ha! Curious way of putting it, is it
not?"

"Very," said Horace, guiltily, and not a little concerned on the
official's account.

"A mere form!" said the Lord Mayor; "but I for one, Mr. Ventimore--I for
one should be sorry to see the picturesque old practices die out. To my
mind," he added, as he finished a _pâté de foie gras_ sandwich, "the
modern impatience to sweep away all the ancient landmarks (whether they
be superannuated or not) is one of the most disquieting symptoms of the
age. You won't have any more champagne? Then I think we had better be
making our way to the Great Hall for the Event of the Day."

"I'm afraid," said Horace, with a sudden consciousness of his
incongruously Oriental attire--"I'm afraid this is not quite the sort of
dress for such a ceremony. If I had known----"

"Now, don't say another word!" said the Lord Mayor. "Your costume is
very nice--very nice indeed, and--and most appropriate, I am sure. But I
see the City Marshal is waiting for us to head the procession. Shall we
lead the way?"

The band struck up the March of the Priests from _Athalie_, and Horace,
his head in a whirl, walked with his host, followed by the City Lands
Committee, the Sheriffs, and other dignitaries, through the Art Gallery
and into the Great Hall, where their entrance was heralded by a flourish
of trumpets.

The Hall was crowded, and Ventimore found himself the object of a
popular demonstration which would have filled him with joy and pride if
he could only have felt that he had done anything whatever to justify
it, for it was ridiculous to suppose that he had rendered himself a
public benefactor by restoring a convicted Jinnee to freedom and society
generally.

His only consolation was that the English are a race not given to
effusiveness without very good reason, and that before the ceremony was
over he would be enabled to gather what were the particular services
which had excited such unbounded enthusiasm.

Meanwhile he stood there on the crimson-draped and flower-bedecked dais,
bowing repeatedly, and trusting that he did not look so forlornly
foolish as he felt. A long shaft of sunlight struck down between the
Gothic rafters, and dappled the brown stone walls with patches of gold;
the electric lights in the big hooped chandeliers showed pale and feeble
against the subdued glow of the stained glass; the air was heavy with
the scent of flowers and essences. Then there was a rustle of
expectation in the audience, and a pause, in which it seemed to Horace
that everybody on the dais was almost as nervous and at a loss what to
do next as he was himself. He wished with all his soul that they would
hurry the ceremony through, anyhow, and let him go.

At length the proceedings began by a sort of solemn affectation of
having merely met there for the ordinary business of the day, which to
Horace just then seemed childish in the extreme; it was resolved that
"items 1 to 4 on the agenda need not be discussed," which brought them
to item 5.

Item 5 was a resolution, read by the Town Clerk, that "the freedom of
the City should be presented to Horace Ventimore, Esq., Citizen and
Candlestick-maker" (which last Horace was not aware of being, but
supposed vaguely that it had been somehow managed while he was at the
buffet in the Library), "in recognition of his services"--the resolution
ran, and Horace listened with all his ears--"especially in connection
with ..." It was most unfortunate--but at this precise point the
official was seized with an attack of coughing, in which all was lost
but the conclusion of the sentence, " ... that have justly entitled him
to the gratitude and admiration of his fellow-countrymen."

Then the six compurgators came forward and vouched for Ventimore's
fitness to receive the freedom. He had painful doubts whether they
altogether understood what a responsibility they were undertaking--but
it was too late to warn them and he could only trust that they knew more
of their business than he did.

After this the City Chamberlain read him an address, to which Horace
listened in resigned bewilderment. The Chamberlain referred to the
unanimity and enthusiasm with which the resolution had been carried, and
said that it was his pleasing and honourable duty, as the mouthpiece of
that ancient City, to address what he described with some inadequacy as
"a few words" to one by adding whose name to their roll of freemen the
Corporation honoured rather themselves than the recipient of their
homage.

It was flattering, but to Horace's ear the phrases sounded excessive,
almost fulsome--though, of course, that depended very much on what he
had done, which he had still to ascertain. The orator proceeded to read
him the "Illustrious List of London's Roll of Fame," a recital which
made Horace shiver with apprehension. For what names they were! What
glorious deeds they had performed! How was it possible that he--plain
Horace Ventimore, a struggling architect who had missed his one great
chance--could have achieved (especially without even being aware of it)
anything that would not seem ludicrously insignificant by comparison?

He had a morbid fancy that the marble goddesses, or whoever they were,
at the base of Nelson's monument opposite, were regarding him with stony
disdain and indignation; that the statue of Wellington knew him for an
arrant impostor, and averted his head with cold contempt; and that the
effigy of Lord Mayor Beckford on the right of the dais would come to
life and denounce him in another moment.

"Turning now to your own distinguished services," he suddenly heard the
City Chamberlain resuming, "you are probably aware, sir, that it is
customary on these occasions to mention specifically the particular
merit which had been deemed worthy of civic recognition."

Horace was greatly relieved to hear it, for it struck him as a most
sensible and, in his own particular case, essential formality.

"But, on the present occasion, sir," proceeded the speaker, "I feel, as
all present must feel, that it would be unnecessary--nay, almost
impertinent--were I to weary the public ear by a halting recapitulation
of deeds with which it is already so appreciatively familiar." At this
he was interrupted by deafening and long-continued applause, at the end
of which he continued: "I have only therefore, to greet you in the name
of the Corporation, and to offer you the right hand of fellowship as a
Freeman, and Citizen, and Candlestick-maker of London."

As he shook hands he presented Horace with a copy of the Oath of
Allegiance, intimating that he was to read it aloud. Naturally,
Ventimore had not the least objection to swear to be good and true to
our Sovereign Lady Queen Victoria, or to be obedient to the Lord Mayor,
and warn him of any conspiracies against the Queen's peace which might
chance to come under his observation; so he took the oath cheerfully
enough, and hoped that this was really the end of the ceremony.

However, to his great chagrin and apprehension, the Lord Mayor rose with
the evident intention of making a speech. He said that the conclusion of
the City to bestow the highest honour in their gift upon Mr. Horace
Ventimore had been--here he hesitated--somewhat hastily arrived at.
Personally, he would have liked a longer time to prepare, to make the
display less inadequate to, and worthier of, this exceptional occasion.
He thought that was the general feeling. (It evidently was, judging from
the loud and unanimous cheering). However, for reasons which--for
reasons with which they were as well acquainted as himself, the notice
had been short. The Corporation had yielded (as they always did, as it
would always be their pride and pleasure to yield) to popular pressure
which was practically irresistible, and had done the best they could in
the limited--he might almost say the unprecedentedly limited--period
allowed them. The proudest leaf in Mr. Ventimore's chaplet of laurels
to-day was, he would venture to assert, the sight of the extraordinary
enthusiasm and assemblage, not only in that noble hall, but in the
thoroughfares of this mighty Metropolis. Under the circumstances, this
was a marvellous tribute to the admiration and affection which Mr.
Ventimore had succeeded in inspiring in the great heart of the people,
rich and poor, high and low. He would not detain his hearers any longer;
all that remained for him to do was to ask Mr. Ventimore's acceptance of
a golden casket containing the roll of freedom, and he felt sure that
their distinguished guest, before proceeding to inscribe his name on the
register, would oblige them all by some account from his own lips of--of
the events in which he had figured so prominently and so creditably.

Horace received the casket mechanically; there was a universal cry of
"Speech!" from the audience, to which he replied by shaking his head in
helpless deprecation--but in vain; he found himself irresistibly pressed
towards the rail in front of the dais, and the roar of applause which
greeted him saved him from all necessity of attempting to speak for
nearly two minutes.

During that interval he had time to clear his brain and think what he
had better do or say in his present unenviable dilemma. For some time
past a suspicion had been growing in his mind, until it had now almost
swollen into certainty. He felt that, before he compromised himself, or
allowed his too generous entertainers to compromise themselves
irretrievably, it was absolutely necessary to ascertain his real
position, and, to do that, he must make some sort of speech. With this
resolve, all his nervousness and embarrassment and indecision melted
away; he faced the assembly coolly and gallantly, convinced that his
best alternative now lay in perfect candour.

"My Lord Mayor, my lords, ladies, and gentlemen," he began, in a clear
voice which penetrated to the farthest gallery and commanded instant
attention. "If you expect to hear from me any description of what I've
done to be received like this, I'm afraid you will be disappointed. For
my own belief is that I've done nothing whatever."

There was a general outcry of "No, no!" at this, and a fervid murmur of
protest.

"It's all very well to say 'No, no,'" said Horace, "and I am extremely
grateful to you all for the interruption. Still, I can only repeat that
I am absolutely unaware of having ever rendered my Country, or this
great City, a single service deserving of the slightest acknowledgment.
I wish I could feel I had--but the truth is that, if I have, the fact
has entirely slipped from my memory."

Again there were murmurs, this time with a certain under-current of
irritation; and he could hear the Lord Mayor behind him remarking to the
City Chamberlain that this was not at all the kind of speech for the
occasion.

"I know what you're thinking," said Horace. "You're thinking this is
mock modesty on my part. But it's nothing of the sort. _I_ don't know
what I've done--but I presume you are all better informed. Because the
Corporation wouldn't have given me that very charming casket--you
wouldn't all of you be here like this--unless you were under a strong
impression that I'd done _something_ to deserve it." At this there was a
fresh outburst of applause. "Just so," said Horace, calmly. "Well, now,
will any of you be kind enough to tell me, in a few words, _what_ you
suppose I've done?"

There was a dead silence, in which every one looked at his or her
neighbour and smiled feebly.

"My Lord Mayor," continued Horace, "I appeal to you to tell me and this
distinguished assembly why on earth we're all here!"

The Lord Mayor rose. "I think it sufficient to say," he announced with
dignity, "that the Corporation and myself were unanimously of opinion
that this distinction should be awarded--for reasons which it is
unnecessary and--hum--ha--invidious to enter into here."

"I am sorry," persisted Horace, "but I must press your lordship for
those reasons. I have an object.... Will the City Chamberlain oblige me,
then?... No? Well, then, the Town Clerk?... No?--it's just as I
suspected: none of you can give me your reasons, and shall I tell you
why? Because there _aren't_ any.... Now, do bear with me for a moment.
I'm quite aware this is very embarrassing for all of you--but remember
that it's infinitely more awkward for _me_! I really cannot accept the
freedom of the City under any suspicion of false pretences. It would be
a poor reward for your hospitality, and base and unpatriotic into the
bargain, to depreciate the value of so great a distinction by permitting
it to be conferred unworthily. If, after you've heard what I am going to
tell you, you still insist on my accepting such an honour, of course I
will not be so ungracious as to refuse it. But I really don't feel that
it would be right to inscribe my name on your Roll of Fame without some
sort of explanation. If I did, I might, for anything I know,
involuntarily be signing the death-warrant of the Corporation!"

There was a breathless hush upon this; the silence grew so intense that
to borrow a slightly involved metaphor from a distinguished friend of
the writer's, you might have picked up a pin in it! Horace leaned
sideways against the rail in an easy attitude, so as to face the Lord
Mayor, as well as a portion of his audience.

"Before I go any farther," he said, "will your lordship pardon me if I
suggest that it might be as well to direct that all reporters present
should immediately withdraw?"

The reporters' table was instantly in a stir of anger, and many of the
guests expressed some dissatisfaction. "We, at least," said the Lord
Mayor, rising, flushed with annoyance, "have no reason to dread
publicity. I decline to make a hole-and-corner affair of this. I shall
give no such orders."

"Very well," said Horace, when the chorus of approval had subsided. "My
suggestion was made quite as much in the Corporation's interests as
mine. I merely thought that, when you all clearly understood how grossly
you've been deluded, you might prefer to have the details kept out of
the newspapers if possible. But if you particularly want them published
over the whole world, why, of course----"

An uproar followed here, under cover of which the Lord Mayor contrived
to give orders to have the doors fastened till further directions.

"Don't make this more difficult and disagreeable for me than it is
already!" said Horace, as soon as he could obtain a hearing again. "You
don't suppose that I should have come here in this Tom-fool's dress,
imposing myself on the hospitality of this great City, if I could have
helped it! If you've been brought here under false pretences, so have I.
If you've been made to look rather foolish, what is _your_ situation to
mine? The fact is, I am the victim of a headstrong force which I am
utterly unable to control...."

Upon this a fresh uproar arose, and prevented him from continuing for
some time. "I only ask for fair play and a patient hearing!" he pleaded.
"Give me that, and I will undertake to restore you all to good humour
before I have done."

They calmed down at this appeal, and he was able to proceed. "My case is
simply this," he said. "A little time ago I happened to go to an auction
and buy a large brass bottle...."

For some inexplicable reason his last words roused the audience to
absolute frenzy; they would not hear anything about the brass bottle.
Every time he attempted to mention it they howled him down, they hissed,
they groaned, they shook their fists; the din was positively deafening.

Nor was the demonstration confined to the male portion of the assembly.
One lady, indeed, who is a prominent leader in society, but whose name
shall not be divulged here, was so carried away by her feelings as to
hurl a heavy cut-glass bottle of smelling-salts at Horace's offending
head. Fortunately for him, it missed him and only caught one of the
officials (Horace was not in a mood to notice details very accurately,
but he had a notion that it was the City Remembrancer) somewhere about
the region of the watch-pocket.

"_Will_ you hear me out?" Ventimore shouted. "I'm not trifling. I
haven't told you yet what was inside the bottle. When I opened it, I
found ..."

He got no farther--for, as the words left his lips, he felt himself
seized by the collar of his robe and lifted off his feet by an agency he
was powerless to resist.

Up and up he was carried, past the great chandeliers, between the carved
and gilded rafters, pursued by a universal shriek of dismay and horror.
Down below he could see the throng of pale, upturned faces, and hear the
wild screams and laughter of several ladies of great distinction in
violent hysterics. And the next moment he was in the glass lantern, and
the latticed panes gave way like tissue paper as he broke through into
the open air, causing the pigeons on the roof to whirr up in a flutter
of alarm.

Of course, he knew that it was the Jinnee who was abducting him in this
sensational manner, and he was rather relieved than alarmed by Fakrash's
summary proceeding, for he seemed, for once, to have hit upon the best
way out of a situation that was rapidly becoming impossible.




CHAPTER XVII

HIGH WORDS


Once outside in the open air, the Jinnee "towered" like a pheasant shot
through the breast, and Horace closed his eyes with a combined
swing-switchback-and-Channel-passage sensation during a flight which
apparently continued for hours, although in reality it probably did not
occupy more than a very few seconds. His uneasiness was still further
increased by his inability to guess where he was being taken to--for he
felt instinctively that they were not travelling in the direction of
home.

At last he felt himself set down on some hard, firm surface, and
ventured to open his eyes once more. When he realised where he actually
was, his knees gave way under him, and he was seized with a sudden
giddiness that very nearly made him lose his balance. For he found
himself standing on a sort of narrow ledge or cornice immediately under
the ball at the top of St. Paul's.

Many feet beneath him spread the dull, leaden summit of the dome, its
raised ridges stretching, like huge serpents over the curve, beyond
which was a glimpse of the green roof of the nave and the two west
towers, with their grey columns and urn-topped buttresses and gilded
pineapples, which shone ruddily in the sun.

He had an impression of Ludgate Hill and Fleet Street as a deep, winding
ravine, steeped in partial shadow; of long sierras of roofs and
chimney-pots, showing their sharp outlines above mouse-coloured
smoke-wreaths; of the broad, pearl-tinted river, with oily ripples and a
golden glitter where the sunlight touched it; of the gleaming slope of
mud under the wharves and warehouses on the Surrey side; of barges and
steamers moored in black clusters; of a small tug fussing noisily down
the river, leaving a broadening arrow-head in its wake.

Cautiously he moved round towards the east, where the houses formed a
blurred mosaic of cream, slate, indigo, and dull reds and browns, above
which slender rose-flushed spires and towers pierced the haze, stained
in countless places by pillars of black, grey, and amber smoke, and
lightened by plumes and jets of silvery steam, till all blended by
imperceptible gradations into a sky of tenderest gold slashed with
translucent blue.

It was a magnificent view, and none the less so because the
indistinctness of all beyond a limited radius made the huge City seem
not only mystical, but absolutely boundless in extent. But although
Ventimore was distinctly conscious of all this, he was scarcely in a
state to appreciate its grandeur just then. He was much too concerned
with wondering why Fakrash had chosen to plant him up there in so
insecure a position, and how he was ever to be rescued from it, since
the Jinnee had apparently disappeared.

He was not far off, however, for presently Horace saw him stalk round
the narrow cornice with an air of being perfectly at home on it.

"So there you are!" said Ventimore; "I thought you'd deserted me again.
What have you brought me up here for?"

"Because I desired to have speech with thee in private," replied the
Jinnee.

"We're not likely to be intruded on here, certainly," said Horace. "But
isn't it rather exposed, rather public? If we're seen up here, you know,
it will cause a decided sensation."

"I have laid a spell on all below that they should not raise their
eyes. Be seated, therefore, and hear my words."

Horace lowered himself carefully to a sitting position, so that his legs
dangled in space, and Fakrash took a seat by his side. "O, most
indiscreet of mankind!" he began, in an aggrieved tone; "thou hast been
near the committal of a great blunder, and doing ill to thyself and to
me!"

"Well, I _do_ like that!" retorted Horace; "when you let me in for all
that freedom of the City business, and then sneaked off, leaving me to
get out of it the best way I could, and only came back just as I was
about to explain matters, and carried me up through the roof like a sack
of flour. Do you consider that tactful on your part?"

"Thou hadst drunk wine and permitted it to creep as far as the place of
secrets."

"Only one glass," said Horace; "and I wanted it, I can assure you. I was
obliged to make a speech to them, and, thanks to you, I was in such a
hole that I saw nothing for it but to tell the truth."

"Veracity, as thou wilt learn," answered the Jinnee, "is not invariably
the Ship of Safety. Thou wert about to betray the benefactor who
procured for thee such glory and honour as might well cause the
gall-bladder of lions to burst with envy!"

"If any lion with the least sense of humour could have witnessed the
proceedings," said Ventimore, "he might have burst with
laughter--certainly not envy. Good Lord! Fakrash," he cried, in his
indignation, "I've never felt such an absolute ass in my whole life! If
nothing would satisfy you but my receiving the freedom of the City, you
might at least have contrived some decent excuse for it! But you left
out the only point there was in the whole thing--and all for what?"

"What doth it signify why the whole populace should come forth to
acclaim thee and do thee honour, so long as they did so?" said Fakrash,
sullenly. "For the report of thy fame would reach Bedeea-el-Jemal."

"That's just where you're mistaken," said Horace. "If you had not been
in too desperate a hurry to make a few inquiries, you would have found
out that you were taking all this trouble for nothing."

"How sayest thou?"

"Well, you would have discovered that the Princess is spared all
temptation to marry beneath her by the fact that she became the bride of
somebody else about thirty centuries ago. She married a mortal, one
Seyf-el-Mulook, a King's son, and they've both been dead a considerable
time--another obstacle to your plans."

"It is a lie," declared Fakrash.

"If you will take me back to Vincent Square, I shall be happy to show
you the evidence in your national records," said Horace. "And you may be
glad to know that your old enemy, Mr. Jarjarees, came to a violent end,
after a very sporting encounter with a King's daughter, who, though
proficient in advanced magic, unfortunately perished herself, poor lady,
in the final round."

"I had intended _thee_ to accomplish his downfall," said Fakrash.

"I know," said Horace. "It was most thoughtful of you. But I doubt if I
should have done it half as well--and it would have probably cost me an
eye, at the very least. It's better as it is."

"And how long hast thou known of these things?"

"Only since last night."

"Since last night? And thou didst not unfold them unto me till this
instant?"

"I've had such a busy morning, you see," explained Horace. "There's been
no time."

"Silly-bearded fool that I was to bring this misbegotten dog into the
august presence of the great Lord Mayor himself (on whom be peace!),"
cried the Jinnee.

"I object to being referred to as a misbegotten dog," said Horace, "but
with the rest of your remark I entirely concur. I'm afraid the Lord
Mayor is very far from being at peace just now." He pointed to the steep
roof of the Guildhall, with its dormers and fretted pinnacles, and the
slender lantern through which he had so lately made his inglorious exit.
"There's the devil of a row going on under that lantern just now, Mr.
Fakrash, you may depend upon that. They've locked the doors till they
can decide what to do next--which will take them some time. And it's all
your fault!"

"It was thy doing. Why didst thou dare to inform the Lord Mayor that he
was deceived?"

"Why? Because I thought he ought to know. Because I was bound,
particularly after my oath of allegiance, to warn him of any conspiracy
against him. Because I was in such a hat. He'll understand all that--he
won't blame _me_ for this business."

"It is fortunate," observed the Jinnee, "that I flew away with thee
before thou couldst pronounce my name."

"You gave yourself away," said Horace. "They all saw you, you know. You
weren't flying so particularly fast. They'll recognise you again. If you
_will_ carry off a man from under the Lord Mayor's very nose, and shoot
up through the roof like a rocket with him, you can't expect to escape
some notice. You see, you happen to be the only unbottled Jinnee in this
City."

Fakrash shifted his seat on the cornice. "I have committed no act of
disrespect unto the Lord Mayor," he said, "therefore he can have no just
cause of anger against me."

Horace perceived that the Jinnee was not altogether at ease, and pushed
his advantage accordingly.

"My dear good old friend," he said, "you don't seem to realise yet what
an awful thing you've done. For your own mistaken purposes, you have
compelled the Chief Magistrate and the Corporation of the greatest City
in the world to make themselves hopelessly ridiculous. They'll never
hear the last of this affair. Just look at the crowds waiting patiently
below there. Look at the flags. Think of that gorgeous conveyance of
yours standing outside the Guildhall. Think of the assembly inside--all
the most aristocratic, noble, and distinguished personages in the land,"
continued Horace, piling it on as he proceeded; "all collected for what?
To be made fools of by a Jinnee out of a brass bottle!"

"For their own sakes they will preserve silence," said Fakrash, with a
gleam of unwonted shrewdness.

"Probably they would hush it up, if they only could," conceded Horace.
"But how _can_ they? What are they to say? What plausible explanation
can they give? Besides, there's the Press: you don't know what the Press
is; but I assure you its power is tremendous--it's simply impossible to
keep anything secret from it nowadays. It has eyes and ears everywhere,
and a thousand tongues. Five minutes after the doors in that hall are
unlocked (and they can't keep them locked _much_ longer) the reporters
will be handing in their special descriptions of you and your latest
vagaries to their respective journals. Within half an hour bills will be
carried through every quarter of London--bills with enormous letters:
'Extraordinary Scene at the Guildhall.' 'Strange End to a Civic
Function.' 'Startling Appearance of an Oriental Genie in the City.'
'Abduction of a Guest of the Lord Mayor.' 'Intense Excitement.' 'Full
Particulars!' And by that time the story will have flashed round the
whole world. 'Keep silence,' indeed! Do you imagine for a moment that
the Lord Mayor, or anybody else concerned, however remotely, will ever
forget, or be allowed to forget, such an outrageous incident as this? If
you do, believe me, you're mistaken."

"Truly, it would be a terrible thing to incur the wrath of the Lord
Mayor," said the Jinnee, in troubled accents.

"Awful!" said Horace. "But you seem to have managed it."

"He weareth round his neck a magic jewel, which giveth him dominion
over devils--is it not so?"

"You know best," said Horace.

"It was the splendour of that jewel and the majesty of his countenance
that rendered me afraid to enter his presence, lest he should recognise
me for what I am and command me to obey him, for verily his might is
greater even than Suleyman's, and his hand heavier upon such of the Jinn
as fall into his power!"

"If that's so," said Horace, "I should strongly advise you to find some
way of putting things straight before it's too late--you've no time to
lose."

"Thou sayest well," said Fakrash, springing to his feet, and turning his
face towards Cheapside. Horace shuffled himself along the ledge in a
seated position after the Jinnee, and, looking down between his feet,
could just see the tops of the thin and rusty trees in the churchyard,
the black and serried swarms of foreshortened people in the street, and
the scarlet-rimmed mouths of chimney-pots on the tiled roofs below.

"There is but one remedy I know," said the Jinnee, "and it may be that I
have lost power to perform it. Yet will I make the endeavour." And,
stretching forth his right hand towards the east, he muttered some kind
of command or invocation.

Horace almost fell off the cornice with apprehension of what might
follow. Would it be a thunderbolt, a plague, some frightful convulsion
of Nature? He felt sure that Fakrash would hesitate at no means, however
violent, of burying all traces of his blunder in oblivion, and very
little hope that, whatever he did, it would prove anything but some
worse indiscretion than his previous performances.

Happily none of these extreme measures seemed to have occurred to the
Jinnee, though what followed was strange and striking enough.

For presently, as if in obedience to the Jinnee's weird gesticulations,
a lurid belt of fog came rolling up from the direction of the Royal
Exchange, swallowing up building after building in its rapid course; one
by one the Guildhall, Bow Church, Cheapside itself, and the churchyard
disappeared, and Horace, turning his head to the left, saw the murky
tide sweeping on westward, blotting out Ludgate Hill, the Strand,
Charing Cross, and Westminster--till at last he and Fakrash were alone
above a limitless plain of bituminous cloud, the only living beings
left, as it seemed, in a blank and silent universe.

"Look again!" said Fakrash, and Horace, looking eastward, saw the spire
of Bow Church, rosy once more, the Guildhall standing clear and intact,
and the streets and house-tops gradually reappearing. Only the flags,
with their unrestful shiver and ripple of colour, had disappeared, and,
with them, the waiting crowds and the mounted constables. The ordinary
traffic of vans, omnibuses, and cabs was proceeding as though it had
never been interrupted--the clank and jingle of harness chains, the
cries and whip-crackings of drivers, rose with curious distinctness
above the incessant trampling roar which is the ground-swell of the
human ocean.

"That cloud which thou sawest," said Fakrash, "hath swept away with it
all memory of this affair from the minds of every mortal assembled to do
thee honour. See, they go about their several businesses, and all the
past incidents are to them as though they had never been."

It was not often that Horace could honestly commend any performance of
the Jinnee's, but at this he could not restrain his admiration. "By
Jove!" he said, "that certainly gets the Lord Mayor and everybody else
out of the mess as neatly as possible. I must say, Mr. Fakrash, it's
much the best thing I've seen you do yet."

"Wait," said the Jinnee, "for presently thou shalt see me perform a yet
more excellent thing."

There was a most unpleasant green glow in his eyes and a bristle in his
thin beard as he spoke, which suddenly made Horace feel uncomfortable.
He did not like the look of the Jinnee at all.

"I really think you've done enough for to-day," he said. "And this wind
up here is rather searching. I shan't be sorry to find myself on the
ground again."

"That," replied the Jinnee, "thou shalt assuredly do before long, O
impudent and deceitful wretch!" And he laid a long, lean hand on
Horace's shoulder.

"He _is_ put out about something!" thought Ventimore. "But what?" "My
dear sir," he said aloud, "I don't understand this tone of yours. What
have I done to offend you?"

"Divinely gifted was he who said: 'Beware of losing hearts in
consequence of injury, for the bringing them back after flight is
difficult.'"

"Excellent!" said Horace. "But I don't quite see the application."

"The application," explained the Jinnee, "is that I am determined to
cast thee down from here with my own hand!"

Horace turned faint and dizzy for a moment. Then, by a strong effort of
will, he pulled himself together. "Oh, come now," he said, "you don't
really mean that, you know. After all your kindness! You're much too
good-natured to be capable of anything so atrocious."

"All pity hath been eradicated from my heart," returned Fakrash.
"Therefore prepare to die, for thou art presently about to perish in the
most unfortunate manner."

Ventimore could not repress a shudder. Hitherto he had never been able
to take Fakrash quite seriously, in spite of all his supernatural
powers; he had treated him with a half-kindly, half-contemptuous
tolerance, as a well-meaning, but hopelessly incompetent, old foozle.
That the Jinnee should ever become malevolent towards him had never
entered his head till now--and yet he undoubtedly had. How was he to
cajole and disarm this formidable being? He must keep cool and act
promptly, or he would never see Sylvia again.

As he sat there on the narrow ledge, with a faint and not unpleasant
smell of hops saluting his nostrils from some distant brewery, he tried
hard to collect his thoughts, but could not. He found himself, instead,
idly watching the busy, jostling crowd below, who were all unconscious
of the impending drama so high above them. Just over the rim of the dome
he could see the opaque white top of a lamp on a shelter, where a pigmy
constable stood, directing the traffic.

Would he look up if Horace called for help? Even if he could, what help
could he render? All he could do would be to keep the crowd back and
send for a covered stretcher. No, he would _not_ dwell on these horrors;
he _must_ fix his mind on some way of circumventing Fakrash.

How did the people in "The Arabian Nights" manage? The fisherman, for
instance? He persuaded _his_ Jinnee to return to the bottle by
pretending to doubt whether he had ever really been inside it.

But Fakrash, though simple enough in some respects, was not quite such a
fool as that. Sometimes the Jinn could be mollified and induced to grant
a reprieve by being told stories, one inside the other, like a nest of
Oriental boxes. Unfortunately Fakrash did not seem in the humour for
listening to apologues, and, even if he were, Horace could not think of
or improvise any just then. "Besides," he thought, "I can't sit up here
telling him anecdotes for ever. I'd almost sooner die!" Still, he
remembered that it was generally possible to draw an Arabian Efreet into
discussion: they all loved argument, and had a rough conception of
justice.

"I think, Mr. Fakrash," he said, "that, in common fairness, I have a
right to know what offence I have committed."

"To recite thy misdeeds," replied the Jinnee, "would occupy much time."

"I don't mind that," said Horace, affably. "I can give you as long as
you like. I'm in no sort of a hurry."

"With me it is otherwise," retorted Fakrash, making a stride towards
him. "Therefore court not life, for thy death hath become unavoidable.'

"Before we part," said Horace, "you won't refuse to answer one or two
questions?"

"Didst thou not undertake never to ask any further favour of me?
Moreover, it will avail thee nought. For I am positively determined to
slay thee."

"I demand it," said Horace, "in the most great name of the Lord Mayor
(on whom be peace!)"

It was a desperate shot--but it took effect. The Jinnee quailed visibly.

"Ask, then," he said; "but briefly, for the time groweth short."

Horace determined to make one last appeal to Fakrash's sense of
gratitude, since it had always seemed the dominant trait in his
character.

"Well," he said, "but for me, wouldn't you be still in that brass
bottle?"

"That," replied the Jinnee, "is the very reason why I purpose to destroy
thee!"

"Oh!" was all Horace could find to say at this most unlooked-for answer.
His sheet anchor, in which he had trusted implicitly, had suddenly
dragged--and he was drifting fast to destruction.

"Are there any other questions which thou wouldst ask?" inquired the
Jinnee, with grim indulgence; "or wilt thou encounter thy doom without
further procrastination?"

Horace was determined not to give in just yet; he had a very bad hand,
but he might as well play the game out and trust to luck to gain a stray
trick.

"I haven't nearly done yet," he said. "And, remember, you've promised to
answer me--in the name of the Lord Mayor!"

"I will answer one other question, and no more," said the Jinnee, in an
inflexible tone; and Ventimore realised that his fate would depend upon
what he said next.




CHAPTER XVIII

A GAME OF BLUFF


"Thy second question, O pertinacious one?" said the Jinnee, impatiently.
He was standing with folded arms looking down on Horace, who was still
seated on the narrow cornice, not daring to glance below again, lest he
should lose his head altogether.

"I'm coming to it," said Ventimore; "I want to know why you should
propose to dash me to pieces in this barbarous way as a return for
letting you out of that bottle. Were you so comfortable in it as all
that?"

"In the bottle I was at least suffered to rest, and none molested me.
But in releasing me thou didst perfidiously conceal from me that
Suleyman was dead and gone, and that there reigneth one in his stead
mightier a thousand-fold, who afflicteth our race with labours and
tortures exceeding all the punishments of Suleyman."

"What on earth have you got into your head now? You can't mean the Lord
Mayor?"

"Whom else?" said the Jinnee, solemnly. "And though, for this once, by a
device I have evaded his vengeance, yet do I know full well that either
by virtue of the magic jewel upon his breast, or through that malignant
monster with the myriad ears and eyes and tongues, which thou callest
'The Press,' I shall inevitably fall into his power before long."

For the life of him, in spite of his desperate plight, Horace could not
help laughing. "I beg your pardon, Mr. Fakrash," he said, as soon as he
could speak, "but--the Lord Mayor! It's really too absurd. Why, he
wouldn't hurt a hair on a fly's head!"

"Seek not to deceive me further!" said Fakrash, furiously. "Didst thou
not inform me with thy own mouth that the spirits of Earth, Air, Water,
and Fire were subject to his will? Have I no eyes? Do I not behold from
here the labours of my captive brethren? What are those on yonder
bridges but enslaved Jinn, shrieking and groaning in clanking fetters,
and snorting forth steam, as they drag their wheeled burdens behind
them? Are there not others toiling, with panting efforts, through the
sluggish waters; others again, imprisoned in lofty pillars, from which
the smoke of their breath ascendeth even unto Heaven? Doth not the air
throb and quiver with their restless struggles as they writhe below in
darkness and torment? And thou hast the shamelessness to pretend that
these things are done in the Lord Mayor's own realms without his
knowledge! Verily thou must take me for a fool!"

"After all," reflected Ventimore, "if he chooses to consider that
railway engines and steamers, and machinery generally, are inhabited by
so many Jinn 'doing time,' it's not to my interest to undeceive
him--indeed, it's quite the contrary!"

"I wasn't aware the Lord Mayor had so much power as all that," he said;
"but very likely you're right. And if you're so anxious to keep in
favour with him, it would be a great mistake to kill me. That _would_
annoy him."

"Not so," said the Jinnee, "for I should declare that thou hadst spoken
slightingly of him in my hearing, and that I had slain thee on that
account."

"Your proper course," said Horace, "would be to hand me over to him, and
let _him_ deal with the case. Much more regular."

"That may be," said Fakrash; "but I have conceived so bitter a hatred to
thee by reason of thy insolence and treachery, that I cannot forego the
delight of slaying thee with my own hand."

"Can't you really?" said Horace, on the verge of despair. "And _then_,
what will you do?"

"Then," replied the Jinnee, "I shall flee away to Arabia, where I shall
be safe."

"Don't you be too sure of that!" said Horace. "You see all those wires
stretched on poles down there? Those are the pathways of certain Jinn
known as electric currents, and the Lord Mayor could send a message
along them which would be at Baghdad before you had flown farther than
Folkestone. And I may mention that Arabia is now more or less under
British jurisdiction."

He was bluffing, of course, for he knew perfectly well that, even if any
extradition treaty could be put in force, the arrest of a Jinnee would
be no easy matter.

"Thou art of opinion, then, that I should be no safer in mine own
country?" inquired Fakrash.

"I swear by the name of the Lord Mayor (to whom be all reverence!)" said
Horace, "that there is no land you could fly to where you would be any
safer than you are here."

"If I were but sealed up in my bottle once more," said the Jinnee,
"would not even the Lord Mayor have respect unto the seal of Suleyman,
and forbear to disturb me?"

"Why, of course he would!" cried Horace, hardly daring to believe his
ears. "That's really a brilliant idea of yours, my dear Mr. Fakrash."

"And in the bottle I should not be compelled to work," continued the
Jinnee. "For labour of all kinds hath ever been abhorrent unto me."

"I can quite understand that," said Horace, sympathetically. "Just
imagine your having to drag an excursion train to the seaside on a Bank
Holiday, or being condemned to print off a cheap comic paper, or even
the _War Cry_, when you might be leading a snug and idle existence in
your bottle. If I were you, I should go and get inside it at once.
Suppose we go back to Vincent Square and find it?"

"I shall return to the bottle, since in that alone there is safety,"
said the Jinnee. "But I shall return alone."

"Alone!" cried Horace. "You're not going to leave me stuck up here all
by myself?"

"By no means," said the Jinnee. "Have I not said that I am about to cast
thee to perdition? Too long have I delayed in the accomplishment of this
duty."

Once more Horace gave himself up for lost; which was doubly bitter, just
when he had begun to consider that the danger was past. But even then,
he was determined to fight to the last.

"One moment," he said. "Of course, if you've set your heart on pitching
me over, you must. Only--I may be quite mistaken--but I don't quite see
how you are going to manage the rest of your programme without me,
that's all."

"O deficient in intelligence!" cried the Jinnee. "What assistance canst
thou render me?"

"Well," said Horace, "of course, you can get into the bottle
alone--that's simple enough. But the difficulty I see is this: Are you
quite sure you can put the cap on yourself--from the _inside_, you
know?" If he can, he thought, "I'm done for!"

"That," began the Jinnee, with his usual confidence "will be the easiest
of--nay," he corrected himself, "there be things that not even the Jinn
themselves can accomplish, and one of them is to seal a vessel while
remaining in it. I am indebted to thee for reminding me thereof."

"Not at all," said Ventimore. "I shall be delighted to come and seal you
up comfortably myself."

"Again thou speakest folly," exclaimed the Jinnee. "How canst thou seal
me up after I have dashed thee into a thousand pieces?"

"That," said Horace, with all the urbanity he could command, "is
precisely the difficulty I was trying to convey."

"There will be no difficulty, for as soon as I am in the bottle I shall
summon certain inferior Efreets, and they will replace the seal."

"When you are once in the bottle," said Horace, at a venture, "you
probably won't be in a position to summon anybody."

"_Before_ I get into the bottle, then!" said the Jinnee, impatiently.
"Thou dost but juggle with words!"

"But about those Efreets," persisted Horace. "You know what Efreets
_are_! How can you be sure that, when they've got you in the bottle,
they won't hand you over to the Lord Mayor? I shouldn't trust them
myself--but, of course, you know best!"

"Whom shall I trust, then?" said Fakrash, frowning.

"I'm sure I don't know. It's rather a pity you're so determined to
destroy me, because, as it happens, I'm just the one person living who
could be depended on to seal you up and keep your secret. However,
that's your affair. After all, why should I care what becomes of you? I
shan't be there!"

"Even at this hour," said the Jinnee, undecidedly, "I might find it in
my heart to spare thee, were I but sure that thou wouldst be faithful
unto me!"

"I should have thought I was more to be trusted than one of your beastly
Efreets!" said Horace, with well-assumed indifference. "But never mind,
I don't know that I care, after all. I've nothing particular to live for
now. You've ruined me pretty thoroughly, and you may as well finish your
work. I've a good mind to jump over, and save you the trouble. Perhaps,
when you see me bouncing down that dome, you'll be sorry!"

"Refrain from rashness!" said the Jinnee, hastily, without suspecting
that Ventimore had no serious intention of carrying out his threat. "If
thou wilt do as thou art bidden, I will not only pardon thee, but grant
thee all that thou desirest."

"Take me back to Vincent Square first," said Horace. "This is not the
place to discuss business."

"Thou sayest rightly," replied the Jinnee; "hold fast to my sleeve, and
I will transport thee to thine abode."

"Not till you promise to play fair," said Horace, pausing on the brink
of the ledge. "Remember, if you let me go now you drop the only friend
you've got in the world!"

"May I be thy ransom!" replied Fakrash. "There shall not be harmed a
hair of thy head!"

Even then Horace had his misgivings; but as there was no other way of
getting off that cornice, he decided to take the risk. And, as it
proved, he acted judiciously, for the Jinnee flew to Vincent Square with
honourable precision, and dropped him neatly into the armchair in which
he had little hoped ever to find himself again.

"I have brought thee hither," said Fakrash, "and yet I am persuaded that
thou art even now devising treachery against me, and wilt betray me if
thou canst."

Horace was about to assure him once more that no one could be more
anxious than himself to see him safely back in his bottle, when he
recollected that it was impolitic to appear too eager.

"After the way you've behaved," he said, "I'm not at all sure that I
ought to help you. Still, I said I would, on certain conditions, and
I'll keep my word."

"Conditions!" thundered the Jinnee. "Wilt thou bargain with me yet
further?"

"My excellent friend," said Horace quietly, "you know perfectly well
that you can't get yourself safely sealed up again in that bottle
without my assistance. If you don't like my terms, and prefer to take
your chance of finding an Efreet who is willing to brave the Lord Mayor,
well, you've only to say so."

"I have loaded thee with all manner of riches and favours, and I will
bestow no more upon thee," said the Jinnee, sullenly. "Nay, in token of
my displeasure, I will deprive thee even of such gifts as thou hast
retained." He pointed his grey forefinger at Ventimore, whose turban
and jewelled robes instantly shrivelled into cobwebs and tinder, and
fluttered to the carpet in filmy shreds, leaving him in nothing but his
underclothing.

"That only shows what a nasty temper you're in," said Horace, blandly,
"and doesn't annoy me in the least. If you'll excuse me, I'll go and put
on some things I can feel more at home in; and perhaps by the time I
return you'll have cooled down."

He slipped on some clothes hurriedly and re-entered the sitting-room.
"Now, Mr. Fakrash," he said, "we'll have this out. You talk of having
loaded me with benefits. You seem to consider I ought to be grateful to
you. In Heaven's name, for what? I've been as forbearing as possible all
this time, because I gave you credit for meaning well. Now, I'll speak
plainly. I told you from the first, and I tell you now, that I want no
riches nor honours from you. The one real good turn you did me was
bringing me that client, and you spoilt that because you would insist on
building the palace yourself, instead of leaving it to me! As for the
rest--here am I, a ruined and discredited man, with a client who
probably supposes I'm in league with the Devil; with the girl I love,
and might have married, believing that I have left her to marry a
Princess; and her father, unable ever to forgive me for having seen him
as a one-eyed mule. In short, I'm in such a mess all round that I don't
care two straws whether I live or die!"

"What is all this to me?" said the Jinnee.

"Only this--that unless you can see your way to putting things straight
for me, I'm hanged if I take the trouble to seal you up in that bottle!"

"How am _I_ to put things straight for thee?" cried Fakrash, peevishly.

"If you could make all those people entirely forget that affair in the
Guildhall, you can make my friends forget the brass bottle and
everything connected with it, can't you?"

"There would be no difficulty in that," Fakrash admitted.

"Well, do it--and I'll swear to seal you up in the bottle exactly as if
you had never been out of it, and pitch you into the deepest part of the
Thames, where no one will ever disturb you."

"First produce the bottle, then," said Fakrash, "for I cannot believe
but that thou hast some lurking guile in thy heart."

"I'll ring for my landlady and have the bottle brought up," said Horace.
"Perhaps that will satisfy you? Stay, you'd better not let her see you."

"I will render myself invisible," said the Jinnee, suiting the action to
his words. "But beware lest thou play me false," his voice continued,
"for I shall hear thee!"

"So you've come in, Mr. Ventimore?" said Mrs. Rapkin, as she entered.
"And without the furrin gentleman? I _was_ surprised, and so was Rapkin
the same, to see you ridin' off this morning in the gorgious chariot and
'osses, and dressed up that lovely! 'Depend upon it,' I says to Rapkin,
I says, 'depend upon it, Mr. Ventimore'll be sent for to Buckinham
Pallis, if it ain't Windsor Castle!'"

"Never mind that now," said Horace, impatiently; "I want that brass
bottle I bought the other day. Bring it up at once, please."

"I thought you said the other day you never wanted to set eyes on it
again, and I was to do as I pleased with it, sir?"

"Well, I've changed my mind, so let me have it, quick."

"I'm sure I'm very sorry, sir, but that you can't, because Rapkin, not
wishful to have the place lumbered up with rubbish, disposed of it on'y
last night to a gentleman as keeps a rag and bone emporium off the
Bridge Road, and 'alf-a-crown was the most he'd give for it, sir."

"Give me his name," said Horace.

"Dilger, sir--Emanuel Dilger. When Rapkin comes in I'm sure he'd go
round with pleasure, and see about it, if required."

"I'll go round myself," said Horace. "It's all right, Mrs. Rapkin, quite
a natural mistake on your part, but--but I happen to want the bottle
again. You needn't stay."

"O thou smooth-faced and double-tongued one!" said the Jinnee, after she
had gone, as he reappeared to view. "Did I not foresee that thou wouldst
deal crookedly? Restore unto me my bottle!"

"I'll go and get it at once," said Horace; "I shan't be five minutes."
And he prepared to go.

"Thou shalt not leave this house," cried Fakrash, "for I perceive
plainly that this is but a device of thine to escape and betray me to
the Press Devil!"

"If you can't see," said Horace, angrily, "that I'm quite as anxious to
see you safely back in that confounded bottle as ever you can be to get
there, you must be pretty dense! _Can't_ you understand? The bottle's
sold, and I can't buy it back without going out. Don't be so infernally
unreasonable!"

"Go, then," said the Jinnee, "and I will await thy return here. But know
this: that if thou delayest long or returnest without my bottle, I shall
know that thou art a traitor, and will visit thee and those who are dear
to thee with the most unpleasant punishments!"

"I'll be back in half an hour, at most," said Horace, feeling that this
would allow him ample margin, and thankful that it did not occur to
Fakrash to go in person.

He put on his hat, and hurried off in the gathering dusk. He had some
little trouble in finding Mr. Dilger's establishment, which was a dirty,
dusty little place in a back street, with a few deplorable old chairs,
rickety washstands, and rusty fenders outside, and the interior almost
completely blocked by piles of dingy mattresses, empty clock-cases,
tarnished and cracked mirrors, broken lamps, damaged picture-frames, and
everything else which one would imagine could have no possible value
for any human being. But in all this collection of worthless curios the
brass bottle was nowhere to be seen.

Ventimore went in and found a youth of about thirteen straining his eyes
in the fading light over one of those halfpenny humorous journals which,
thanks to an improved system of education, at least eighty per cent. of
our juvenile population are now enabled to appreciate.

"I want to see Mr. Dilger," he began.

"You can't," said the youth. "'Cause he ain't in. He's attending of an
auction."

"When _will_ he be in, do you know?"

"Might be back to his tea--but I wasn't to expect him not before
supper."

"You don't happen to have any old metal bottles--copper or--or brass
would do--for sale?"

"You don't git at me like that! Bottles is made o' glorss."

"Well, a jar, then--a big brass pot--anything of that kind?"

"Don't keep 'em," said the boy, and buried himself once more in his copy
of "Spicy Sniggers."

"I'll just look round," said Horace, and began to poke about with a
sinking heart, and a horrid dread that he might have come to the wrong
shop, for the big pot-bellied vessel certainly did not seem to be there.
At last, to his unspeakable joy, he discovered it under a piece of
tattered drugget. "Why, this is the sort of thing I meant," he said,
feeling in his pocket and discovering that he had exactly a sovereign.
"How much do you want for it?"

"I dunno," said the boy.

"I don't mind three shillings," said Horace, who did not wish to appear
too keen at first.

"I'll tell the guv'nor when he comes in," was the reply, "and you can
look in later."

"I want it at once," insisted Horace. "Come, I'll give you three-and-six
for it."

"It's more than it's wurf," replied the candid youth.

"Perhaps," said Horace, "but I'm rather pressed for time. If you'll
change this sovereign, I'll take the bottle away with me."

"You seem uncommon anxious to get 'old on it, mister!" said the boy,
with sudden suspicion.

"Nonsense!" said Horace. "I live close by, and I thought I might as well
take it, that's all."

"Oh, if that's all, you can wait till the guv'nor's in."

"I--I mayn't be passing this way again for some time," said Horace.

"Bound to be, if you live close by," and the provoking youth returned to
his "Sniggers."

"Do you call this attending to your master's business?" said Horace.
"Listen to me, you young rascal. I'll give you five shillings for it.
You're not going to be fool enough to refuse an offer like that?"

"I ain't goin' to be fool enough to refuse it--nor yet I ain't goin' to
be fool enough to take it, 'cause I'm only 'ere to see as nobody don't
come in and sneak fings. I ain't got no authority to sell anyfink, and I
don't know the proice o' nuffink, so there you _'ave_ it."

"Take the five shillings," said Horace, "and if it's too little I'll
come round and settle with your master later."

"I thought you said you wasn't likely to be porsin' again? No, mister,
you don't kid me that way!"

Horace had a mad impulse to snatch up the precious bottle then and there
and make off with it, and might have yielded to the temptation, with
disastrous consequences, had not an elderly man entered the shop at that
moment. He was bent, and wore rather more fluff and flue upon his person
than most well-dressed people would consider necessary, but he came in
with a certain air of authority, nevertheless.

"Mr. Dilger, sir," piped the youth, "'ere's a gent took a fancy to this
'ere brass pot o' yours. Says he _must_ 'ave it. Five shillings he'd got
to, but I told him he'd 'ave to wait till you come in."

"Quite right, my lad!" said Mr. Dilger, cocking a watery but sharp old
eye at Horace. "Five shillings! Ah, sir, you can't know much about these
hold brass antiquities to make an orfer like that."

"I know as much as most people," said Horace. "But let us say six
shillings."

"Couldn't be done, sir; couldn't indeed. Why, I give a pound for it
myself at Christie's, as sure as I'm standin' 'ere in the presence o' my
Maker, and you a sinner!" he declared impressively, if rather
ambiguously.

"Your memory is not quite accurate," said Horace. "You bought it last
night from a man of the name of Rapkin, who lets lodgings in Vincent
Square, and you paid exactly half a crown for it."

"If you say so I dare say it's correct, sir," said Mr. Dilger, without
exhibiting the least confusion. "And if I did buy it off Mr. Rapkin,
he's a respectable party, and ain't likely to have come by it
dishonest."

"I never said he did. What will you take for the thing?"

"Well, just look at the work in it. They don't turn out the like o' that
nowadays. Dutch, that is; what they used for to put their milk and
such-like in."

"Damn it!" said Horace, completely losing his temper. "_I_ know what it
was used for. _Will_ you tell me what you want for it?"

"I couldn't let a curiosity like that go a penny under thirty
shillings," said Mr. Dilger, affectionately. "It would be robbin'
myself."

"I'll give you a sovereign for it--there," said Horace. "You know best
what profit that represents. That's my last word."

"_My_ last word to that, sir, is good hevenin'," said the worthy man.

"Good evening, then," said Horace, and walked out of the shop; rather to
bring Mr. Dilger to terms than because he really meant to abandon the
bottle, for he dared not go back without it, and he had nothing about
him just then on which he could raise the extra ten shillings, supposing
the dealer refused to trust him for the balance--and the time was
growing dangerously short.

Fortunately the well-worn ruse succeeded, for Mr. Dilger ran out after
him and laid an unwashed claw upon his coat-sleeve. "Don't go, mister,"
he said; "I like to do business if I can; though, 'pon my word and
honour, a sovereign for a work o' art like that! Well, just for luck and
bein' my birthday, we'll call it a deal."

Horace handed over the coin, which left him with a few pence. "There
ought to be a lid or stopper of some sort," he said suddenly. "What have
you done with that?"

"No, sir, there you're mistook, you are, indeed. I do assure you you
never see a pot of this partickler pattern with a lid to it. Never!"

"Oh, don't you, though?" said Horace. "I know better. Never mind," he
said, as he recollected that the seal was in Fakrash's possession. "I'll
take it as it is. Don't trouble to wrap it up. I'm in rather a hurry."

It was almost dark when he got back to his rooms, where he found the
Jinnee shaking with mingled rage and apprehension.

"No welcome to thee!" he cried. "Dilatory dog that thou art! Hadst thou
delayed another minute, I would have called down some calamity upon
thee."

"Well, you need not trouble yourself to do that now," returned
Ventimore. "Here's your bottle, and you can creep into it as soon as you
please."

"But the seal!" shrieked the Jinnee. "What hast thou done with the seal
which was upon the bottle?"

"Why, you've got it yourself, of course," said Horace, "in one of your
pockets."

"O thou of base antecedents!" howled Fakrash, shaking out his flowing
draperies. "How should _I_ have the seal? This is but a fresh device of
thine to undo me!"

"Don't talk rubbish!" retorted Horace. "You made the Professor give it
up to you yesterday. You must have lost it somewhere or other. Never
mind! I'll get a large cork or bung, which will do just as well. And
I've lots of sealing-wax."

"I will have no seal but the seal of Suleyman!" declared the Jinnee.
"For with no other will there be security. Verily I believe that that
accursed sage, thy friend, hath contrived by some cunning to get the
seal once more into his hands. I will go at once to his abode and compel
him to restore it."

"I wouldn't," said Horace, feeling extremely uneasy, for it was
evidently a much simpler thing to let a Jinnee out of a bottle than to
get him in again. "He's quite incapable of taking it. And if you go out
now you'll only make a fuss and attract the attention of the Press,
which I thought you rather wanted to avoid."

"I shall attire myself in the garments of a mortal--even those I assumed
on a former occasion," said Fakrash, and as he spoke his outer robes
modernised into a frock-coat. "Thus shall I escape attention."

"Wait one moment," said Horace. "What is that bulge in your
breast-pocket?"

"Of a truth," said the Jinnee, looking relieved but not a little foolish
as he extracted the object, "it is indeed the seal."

"You're in such a hurry to think the worst of everybody, you see!" said
Horace. "Now, _do_ try to carry away with you into your seclusion a
better opinion of human nature."

"Perdition to all the people of this age!" cried Fakrash, re-assuming
his green robe and turban, "for I now put no faith in human beings and
would afflict them all, were not the Lord Mayor (on whom be peace!)
mightier than I. Therefore, while it is yet time, take thou the stopper,
and swear that, after I am in this bottle, thou wilt seal it as before
and cast it into deep waters, where no eye will look upon it more!"

"With all the pleasure in the world!" said Horace; "only you must keep
_your_ part of the bargain first. You will kindly obliterate all
recollection of yourself and the brass bottle from the minds of every
human being who has had anything to do with you or it."

"Not so," objected the Jinnee, "for thus wouldst thou forget thy
compact."

"Oh, very well, leave _me_ out, then," said Horace. "Not that anything
could make me forget _you_!"

Fakrash swept his right hand round in a half circle. "It is
accomplished," he said. "All recollection of myself and yonder bottle is
now erased from the memories of every one but thyself."

"But how about my client?" said Horace. "I can't afford to lose _him_,
you know."

"He shall return unto thee," said the Jinnee, trembling with impatience.
"Now perform thy share."

Horace had triumphed. It had been a long and desperate duel with this
singular being, who was at once so crafty and so childlike, so credulous
and so suspicious, so benevolent and so malign. Again and again he had
despaired of victory, but he had won at last. In another minute or so
this formidable Jinnee would be safely bottled once more, and powerless
to intermeddle and plague him for the future.

And yet, in the very moment of triumph, quixotic as such scruples may
seem to some, Ventimore's conscience smote him. He could not help a
certain pity for the old creature, who was shaking there convulsively
prepared to re-enter his bottle-prison rather than incur a wholly
imaginary doom. Fakrash had aged visibly within the last hour; now he
looked even older than his three thousand and odd years. True, he had
led Horace a fearful life of late, but at first, at least, his
intentions had been good. His gratitude, if mistaken in its form, was
the sign of a generous disposition. Not every Jinnee, surely, would
have endeavoured to press untold millions and honours and dignities of
all kinds upon him, in return for a service which most mortals would
have considered amply repaid by a brace of birds and an invitation to an
evening party.

And how was Horace treating _him_? He was taking what, in his heart, he
felt to be a rather mean advantage of the Jinnee's ignorance of modern
life to cajole him into returning to his captivity. Why not suffer him
to live out the brief remainder of his years (for he could hardly last
more than another century or two at most) in freedom? Fakrash had learnt
his lesson: he was not likely to interfere again in human affairs; he
might find his way back to the Palace of the Mountain of the Clouds and
end his days there, in peaceful enjoyment of the society of such of the
Jinn as might still survive unbottled.

So, obeying--against his own interests--some kindlier impulse, Horace
made an effort to deter the Jinnee, who was already hovering in air
above the neck of the bottle in a swirl of revolving draperies, like
some blundering old bee vainly endeavouring to hit the opening into his
hive.

"Mr. Fakrash," he cried, "before you go any farther, listen to me.
There's no real necessity, after all, for you to go back to your bottle.
If you'll only wait a little----"

But the Jinnee, who had now swelled to gigantic proportions, and whose
form and features were only dimly recognisable through the wreaths of
black vapour in which he was involved, answered him from his pillar of
smoke in a terrible voice. "Wouldst thou still persuade me to linger?"
he cried. "Hold thy peace and be ready to fulfil thine undertaking."

"But, look here," persisted Horace. "I should feel such a brute if I
sealed you up without telling you----" The whirling and roaring column,
in shape like an inverted cone, was being fast sucked down into the
vessel, till only a semi-materialised but highly infuriated head was
left above the neck of the bottle.

"Must I tarry," it cried, "till the Lord Mayor arrive with his Memlooks,
and the hour of safety is expired? By my head, if thou delayest another
instant, I will put no more faith in thee! And I will come forth once
more, and afflict thee and thy friends--ay, and all the dwellers in this
accursed city--with the most painful and unheard-of calamities."

And, with these words, the head sank into the bottle with a loud clap
resembling thunder.

Horace hesitated no longer. The Jinnee himself had absolved him from all
further scruples; to imperil Sylvia and her parents--not to mention all
London--out of consideration for one obstinate and obnoxious old demon,
would clearly be carrying sentiment much too far.

Accordingly, he made a rush for the jar and slipped the metal cover over
the mouth of the neck, which was so hot that it blistered his fingers,
and, seizing the poker, he hammered down the secret catch until the lid
fitted as closely as Suleyman himself could have required.

Then he stuffed the bottle into a kit-bag, adding a few coals to give it
extra weight, and toiled off with it to the nearest steamboat pier,
where he spent his remaining pence in purchasing a ticket to the Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next day the following paragraph appeared in one of the evening papers,
which probably had more space than usual at its disposal:


    "SINGULAR OCCURRENCE ON A PENNY
                STEAMER

"A gentleman on board one of the Thames steamboats (so we are informed
by an eye-witness) met with a somewhat ludicrous mishap yesterday
evening. It appears that he had with him a small portmanteau, or large
hand-bag, which he was supporting on the rail of the stern bulwark. Just
as the vessel was opposite the Savoy Hotel he incautiously raised his
hand to the brim of his hat, thereby releasing hold of the bag, which
overbalanced itself and fell into the deepest part of the river, where
it instantly sank. The owner (whose carelessness occasioned considerable
amusement to passengers in his immediate vicinity) appeared no little
disconcerted by the oversight, and was not unnaturally reticent as to
the amount of his loss, though he was understood to state that the bag
contained nothing of any great value. However this may be, he has
probably learnt a lesson which will render him more careful in future."




THE EPILOGUE


On a certain evening in May Horace Ventimore dined in a private room at
the Savoy, as one of the guests of Mr. Samuel Wackerbath. In fact, he
might almost be said to be the guest of the evening, as the dinner was
given by way of celebrating the completion of the host's new country
house at Lipsfield, of which Horace was the architect, and also to
congratulate him on his approaching marriage (which was fixed to take
place early in the following month) with Miss Sylvia Futvoye.

"Quite a small and friendly party!" said Mr. Wackerbath, looking round
on his numerous sons and daughters, as he greeted Horace in the
reception-room. "Only ourselves, you see, Miss Futvoye, a young lady
with whom you are fairly well acquainted, and her people, and an old
schoolfellow of mine and his wife, who are not yet arrived. He's a man
of considerable eminence," he added, with a roll of reflected importance
in his voice; "quite worth your cultivating. Sir Lawrence Pountney, his
name is. I don't know if you remember him, but he discharged the onerous
duties of Lord Mayor of London the year before last, and acquitted
himself very creditably--in fact, he got a baronetcy for it."

As the year before last was the year in which Horace had paid his
involuntary visit to the Guildhall, he was able to reply with truth that
he _did_ remember Sir Lawrence.

He was not altogether comfortable when the ex-Lord-Mayor was announced,
for it would have been more than awkward if Sir Lawrence had chanced to
remember _him_. Fortunately, he gave no sign that he did so, though his
manner was graciousness itself. "Delighted, my dear Mr. Ventimore," he
said pressing Horace's hand almost as warmly as he had done that October
day of the dais, "most delighted to make your acquaintance! I am always
glad to meet a rising young man, and I hear that the house you have
designed for my old friend here is a perfect palace--a marvel, sir!"

"I knew he was my man," declared Mr. Wackerbath, as Horace modestly
disclaimed Sir Lawrence's compliment. "You remember, Pountney, my dear
fellow, that day when we were crossing Westminster Bridge together, and
I was telling you I thought of building? 'Go to one of the leading
men--an R.A. and all that sort of thing,' you said, 'then you'll be sure
of getting your money's worth.' But I said, 'No, I like to choose for
myself; to--ah--exercise my own judgment in these matters. And there's a
young fellow I have in my eye who'll beat 'em all, if he's given the
chance. I'm off to see him now.' And off I went to Great Cloister Street
(for he hadn't those palatial offices of his in Victoria Street at that
time) without losing another instant, and dropped in on him with my
little commission. Didn't I, Ventimore?"

"You did indeed," said Horace, wondering how far these reminiscences
would go.

"And," continued Mr. Wackerbath, patting Horace on the shoulder, "from
that day to this I've never had a moment's reason to regret it. We've
worked in perfect sympathy. His ideas coincided with mine. I think he
found that I met him, so to speak, on all fours."

Ventimore assented, though it struck him that a happier expression
might, and would, have been employed if his client had remembered one
particular interview in which he had not figured to advantage.

They went in to dinner, in a room sumptuously decorated with panels of
grey-green brocade and softly shaded lamps, and screens of gilded
leather; through the centre of the table rose a tall palm, its boughs
hung with small electric globes like magic fruits.

"This palm," said the Professor, who was in high good humour, "really
gives quite an Oriental look to the table. Personally, I think we might
reproduce the Arabian style of decoration and arrangement generally in
our homes with great advantage. I often wonder it never occurred to my
future son-in-law there to turn his talents in that direction and design
an Oriental interior for himself. Nothing more comfortable and
luxurious--for a bachelor's purposes."

"I'm sure," said his wife, "Horace managed to make himself quite
comfortable enough as it was. He has the most delightful rooms in
Vincent Square." Ventimore heard her remark to Sir Lawrence: "I shall
never forget the first time we dined there, just after my daughter and
he were engaged. I was quite astonished: everything was so
perfect--quite simple, you know, but _so_ ingeniously arranged, and his
landlady such an excellent cook, too! Still, of course, in many ways, it
will be nicer for him to have a home of his own."

"With such a beautiful and charming companion to share it with," said
Sir Lawrence, in his most florid manner, "the--ah--poorest home would
prove a Paradise indeed! And I suppose now, my dear young lady," he
added, raising his voice to address Sylvia, "you are busy making your
future abode as exquisite as taste and research can render it,
ransacking all the furniture shops in London for treasures, and going
about to auctions--or do you--ah--delegate that department to Mr.
Ventimore?"

"I do go about to old furniture shops, Sir Lawrence," she said, "but not
auctions. I'm afraid I should only get just the thing I didn't want if I
tried to bid.... And," she added, in a lower voice, turning to Horace,
"I don't believe _you_ would be a bit more successful, Horace!"

"What makes you say that, Sylvia?" he asked, with a start.

"Why, do you mean to say you've forgotten how you went to that auction
for papa, and came away without having managed to get a single thing?"
she said. "What a short memory you must have!"

There was only tender mockery in her eyes; absolutely no recollection of
the sinister purchase he had made at that sale, or how nearly it had
separated them for ever. So he hastened to admit that perhaps he had
_not_ been particularly successful at the auction in question.

Sir Lawrence next addressed him across the table. "I was just telling
Mrs. Futvoye," he said, "how much I regretted that I had not the
privilege of your acquaintance during my year of office. A Lord Mayor,
as you doubtless know, has exceptional facilities for exercising
hospitality, and it would have afforded me real pleasure if your first
visit to the Guildhall could have been paid under my--hm--ha--auspices."

"You are very kind," said Horace, very much on his guard; "I could not
wish to pay it under better."

"I flatter myself," said the ex-Lord Mayor, "that, while in office, I
did my humble best to maintain the traditions of the City, and I was
fortunate enough to have the honour of receiving more than the average
number of celebrities as guests. But I had one great disappointment, I
must tell you. It had always been a dream of mine that it might fall to
my lot to present some distinguished fellow-countryman with the freedom
of the City. By some curious chance, when the opportunity seemed about
to occur, the thing was put off and I missed it--missed it by the
nearest hair-breadth!"

"Ah, well, Sir Lawrence," said Ventimore, "one can't have _everything_!"

"For my part," put in Lady Pountney, who had only caught a word or two
of her husband's remarks, "what _I_ miss most is having the sentinels
present arms whenever I went out for a drive. They did it so nicely and
respectfully. I confess I enjoyed that. My husband never cared much for
it. Indeed, he wouldn't even use the State coach unless he was
absolutely obliged. He was as obstinate as a mule about it!"

"I see, Lady Pountney," the Professor put in, "that you share the common
prejudice against mules. It's quite a mistaken one. The mule has never
been properly appreciated in this country. He is really the gentlest and
most docile of creatures!"

"I can't say I like them myself," said Lady Pountney; "such a mongrel
sort of animal--neither one thing nor the other!"

"And they're hideous too, Anthony," added his wife. "And not at all
clever!"

"There you're mistaken, my dear," said the Professor; "they are capable
of almost human intelligence. I have had considerable personal
experience of what a mule can do," he informed Lady Pountney, who seemed
still incredulous. "More than most people indeed, and I can assure you,
my dear Lady Pountney, that they readily adapt themselves to almost any
environment, and will endure the greatest hardships without exhibiting
any signs of distress. I see by your expression, Ventimore, that you
don't agree with me, eh?"

Horace had to set his teeth hard for a moment, lest he should disgrace
himself by a peal of untimely mirth--but by a strong effort of will he
managed to command his muscles.

"Well, sir," he said, "I've only chanced to come into close contact with
one mule in my life, and, frankly, I've no desire to repeat the
experience."

"You happened to come upon an unfavourable specimen, that's all," said
the Professor. "There are exceptions to every rule."

"This animal," Horace said, "was certainly exceptional enough in every
way."

"Do tell us all about it," pleaded one of the Miss Wackerbaths, and all
the ladies joined in the entreaty until Horace found himself under the
necessity of improvising a story, which, it must be confessed, fell
exceedingly flat.

This final ordeal past, he grew silent and thoughtful, as he sat there
by Sylvia's side, looking out through the glazed gallery outside upon
the spring foliage along the Embankment, the opaline river, and the shot
towers and buildings on the opposite bank glowing warm brown against an
evening sky of silvery blue.

Not for the first time did it seem strange, incredible almost, to him
that all these people should be so utterly without any recollection of
events which surely might have been expected to leave some trace upon
the least retentive memory--and yet it only proved once more how
thoroughly and honourably the old Jinnee, now slumbering placidly in his
bottle deep down in unfathomable mud, opposite the very spot where they
were dining, had fulfilled his last undertaking.

Fakrash, the brass bottle, and all the fantastic and embarrassing
performances were indeed as totally forgotten as though they had never
been.

       *       *       *       *       *

And it is but too probable that even this modest and veracious account
of them will prove to have been included in the general act of
oblivion--though the author will trust as long as possible that
Fakrash-el-Aamash may have neglected to provide for this particular
case, and that the history of the Brass Bottle may thus be permitted to
linger awhile in the memories of some at least of its readers.


The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Devil-Tree of El Dorado, by Frank Aubrey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Devil-Tree of El Dorado
       A Novel

Author: Frank Aubrey

Illustrator: Leigh Ellis
             Fred Hyland

Release Date: October 13, 2013 [EBook #43944]

Language: English





Produced by eagkw, sp1nd and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)







  _THE DEVIL-TREE OF
  EL DORADO_




  [Illustration: "IT WAS PASSED ABOUT; NOW LIFTED HIGH IN THE AIR BY ONE
  END, THEN BY THE OTHER."
  _Frontispiece._]     [_Page 249._]




  _THE DEVIL-TREE
  OF EL DORADO_

  A novel

  BY
  FRANK AUBREY

  _WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY LEIGH ELLIS AND
  FRED. HYLAND._

  [Illustration]

  NEW YORK
  NEW AMSTERDAM BOOK COMPANY
  156 FIFTH AVENUE

  LONDON: HUTCHINSON & COMPANY




  COPYRIGHT, 1897,
  BY
  NEW AMSTERDAM BOOK COMPANY.




PREFACE.

SHALL RORAIMA[1] BE GIVEN UP TO VENEZUELA?

      [1] The Indians of British Guiana pronounce this word Roreema.


Shall Roraima be handed over to Venezuela? Shall the mysterious
mountain long known to scientists as foremost among the wonders of our
earth--regarded by many as the greatest marvel of the world--become
definitely Venezuelan territory?

This is the question that hangs in the balance at the time these words
are being written, that is inseparably associated--though many of
the public know it not--with the dispute that has arisen about the
boundaries of British Guiana.

Ever since Sir Robert Schomburgk first explored the colony at the
expense of the Royal Geographical Society some sixty years ago, Roraima
has remained an unsolved problem of romantic and fascinating interest,
as attractive to the 'ordinary person' as to the man of science. And
to those acquainted with the wondrous possibilities that lie behind
the solution of the problem, the prospect of its being handed over
to a country so little worthy of the trust as is Venezuela, cannot be
contemplated without feelings of disappointment and dismay.

This is not the place in which to give a long description of Roraima.
It will suffice here to say that its summit is a table-land which,
it is believed, has been isolated from all the rest of the world for
untold ages; no wilderness of ice and snow, but a fertile country of
wood and stream, and, probably, lake. Consequently it holds out to the
successful explorer the chance--the probability even--of finding there
hitherto unknown animals, plants, fish. In this respect it exceeds in
interest all other parts of the earth's surface, not excepting the
polar regions; for the latter are but ice-bound wastes, while Roraima's
mysterious table-land lies in the tropics but a few degrees north of
the equator.

Why, then, it may be asked, have our scientific societies not exhibited
more zeal in the solving of the problem presented by this strange
mountain? Why is it that unlimited money can, apparently, be raised
for expeditions to the poles, while no attempt has been made to
explore Roraima? Yet, sixty years ago, the Royal Geographical Society
could find the money to send Sir Robert Schomburgk out to explore
British Guiana--indeed, it is to that fact that we owe the discovery
of Roraima--but nothing has been done since. Had the good work thus
begun been followed up, we should to-day have been able to show better
reason for claiming Roraima as a British possession. But, as the writer
of the article in the _Spectator_ quoted on page 3 says, "we leave the
mystery unsolved, the marvel uncared for." This article is commended
to the perusal of those interested in the subject, as also are the
following books, which give all the information at present available,
viz.--Mr. Barrington Brown's 'Canoe and Camp Life in British Guiana,'
and Mr. Boddam-Whetham's 'Roraima and British Guiana.' Mr. Im Thurn's
'Among the Indians of British Guiana' should also be mentioned, since
it contains references to Roraima, though the author did not actually
visit the mountain, as in the case of the first named.

As an illustration of the confusion and uncertainty that prevail as to
the international status of this unique mountain, it may be mentioned
that in the map of British Guiana which Sir Robert Schomburgk drew out
for the British Government, it is placed within the British frontier.
But in the map of the next Government explorer, Mr. Barrington
Brown--'based,' he says, 'upon Schomburgk's map'--it is placed just
inside the Venezuelan boundary; and no explanation is given of the
apparent contradiction. Again, another authority, Mr. Im Thurn (above
referred to), Curator of the Museum at Georgetown (the capital of the
colony), in his book says that Roraima "lies on the extreme edge of the
colony, or perhaps on the other side of the _Brazilian_ boundary."
These references show the obscurity in which the whole matter is at
present involved.

Apart, however, from the special interest that surrounds Roraima owing
to the inaccessible character of its summit,[2] it is of very great
geographical importance, from the fact that it is the highest mountain
in all that part of South America, _i.e._, in all the Guianas, in
Venezuela, and in the north-east part of Brazil. Indeed, we must cross
Brazil, that vast country of upwards of three million square miles, to
find the nearest mountains that exceed in height Roraima. Consequently,
it forms the apex of the water-shed of that part of South America; and
it is, in fact, the source of several of the chief feeders of the great
rivers Essequibo, Orinoco and Amazon. Schomburgk, in pointing this out,
dwelt strongly upon the importance of the mountain to British Guiana,
and insisted that its inclusion within the British boundary was a
geographical necessity.

      [2] Mr. Barrington Brown says the mountain can only be ascended
      by means of balloons (see article previously referred to on
      page 3); and Mr. Boddam-Whetham came to the same conclusion.

Finally, Sir Robert's brother, Richard Schomburgk, a skilled botanist,
who had visited almost all parts of Asia and Africa in search of
orchids and other rare botanical productions, tells us that the country
around Roraima is, from a botanical point of view, one of the most
wonderful in the world. "Not only the orchids," he says, "but the
shrubs and low trees were unknown to me. Every shrub, herb and tree
was new to me, if not as to family, yet as to species. I stood on the
border of an unknown plant zone, full of wondrous forms which lay as if
by magic before me.... Every step revealed something new." ('Reissen in
Britisch Guiana,' Leipzig, vol. ii., p. 216.)

Are our rulers, in their treatment of the question, bearing these facts
sufficiently in mind? Are they as keenly alive as are the Venezuelans
to the importance of Roraima? If they are, there is no sign of it; for
while, in the Venezuelan statements of their case, there are lengthy,
emphatic, and repeated references to the importance of Roraima, on the
English side--in the English press even--there is scarcely a word about
it.

From these observations it will be seen that there is reason to fear
we may be on the point of allowing one of the most scientifically
interesting and geographically important spots upon the surface of the
globe to slip out of our possession into that of a miserable little
state like Venezuela, where civil anarchy is chronic, and neither life
nor property is secure.

One of the avowed objects of this book, therefore, is to stimulate
public interest, and arouse public attention to the considerations that
actually underlie the 'Venezuelan Question,' as well as to while away
an idle hour for the lovers of romance.

It has been suggested that, if it is too late to retain the
wonderful Roraima as exclusively British--and to effect this it would
be well worth our while to barter away some other portion of the
disputed territory--then an arrangement might be come to to make it
neutral ground. Standing, as it does, in the corner where the three
countries--Brazil, Venezuela and British Guiana--meet, it is of
importance to all three, and, no doubt, in such an endeavour, we should
have the support of Brazil as against Venezuela.

       *       *       *       *       *

With regard to the oft-discussed question of the situation of the
traditional city of Manoa, or El Dorado--as the Spaniards called
it--most authorities, including Humboldt and Schomburgk, agree in
giving British Guiana as its probable site. We are told that it stood
on an island in the midst of a great lake called 'Parima'; but no such
lake is now to be found in South America anywhere near the locality
indicated. An explanation of the mystery, however, is afforded by the
suggestion that such a great lake, or inland sea, almost certainly
existed at one time in precisely this part of the continent; in that
case what are now mountains in the country would then have been islands.

Indeed, most of British Guiana lies somewhat low, and it is estimated
that if the _highlands_ were to sink two thousand feet the whole
country would be under water--the mountain summits excepted--and there
would then be only 'a narrow strait' between the Roraima range and the
Andes. In this great supposed ancient lake the group of islands now
represented by mountain summits might well have been the home of a
powerful and conquering race--as is to-day Japan with its group of more
than three thousand islands--and Roraima, as the highest, and therefore
the most easily defensible, may very well have been selected as their
fastness, and the site of their capital city.

Schomburgk thus states his speculations upon the point, in his book on
British Guiana, page 6:--

"The geological structure of this region leaves but little doubt
that it was once the bed of an inland lake which, by one of those
catastrophes of which even later times give us examples, broke its
barriers, forcing for its waters a path to the Atlantic. May we not
connect with the former existence of this inland sea the fable of the
lake Parima and the El Dorado? Thousands of years may have elapsed;
generations may have been buried and returned to dust; nations who
once wandered on its banks may be extinct and exist no more in name;
still, tradition of Parima and the El Dorado survived these changes of
time; transmitted from father to son, its fame was carried across the
Atlantic and kindled the romantic fire of the chivalric Raleigh."

       *       *       *       *       *

As a natural sequence to the foregoing arises the inquiry, What sort
of people were those who inhabited this island city, or who 'wandered
on the banks' of the great lake? Here much is to be learned from the
recent discoveries of the Government of the United States who, of late
years, have devoted liberal sums to pre-historic research. The money
so expended has been the means of unearthing evidence of a startling
character--relics of a former civilisation that existed in America
ages before the time of its discovery by Christopher Columbus. The
Spaniards, as we know, found races that were white, or nearly so; but
these later discoveries go to show that long anterior to these--at
a time, in fact, probably coeval with what we call the Egyptian
civilisation--America was peopled with a white race fully as cultured,
as advanced in the sciences, and as powerful on their own ground as the
ancient Egyptians; and as handsome in personal appearance--if some of
the heads and faces on the specimens of pottery may be accepted as fair
examples--as the ancient Greeks.

It has long been known that America possesses extraordinary relics of
a former civilisation in what are known as the great 'earthworks,'
which are still to be seen scattered about in many parts of the
continent, and which, as vast engineering works, challenge comparison
with the pyramids themselves. But now discovery has gone much
further; bas-reliefs and pottery have been found that set forth with
marvellous fidelity many minute details concerning this pre-historic
people--their personal appearance, and their ornaments and habiliments;
the style of wearing the hair and the beard; and other particulars
that can be appreciated only by inspection and study of the reduced
fac-similes lately printed and issued by the Government of the United
States.

Many of them relate to the custom of human sacrifice which, as most
people are probably aware, prevailed largely in America when the
Spaniards first landed there; though few, perhaps, know the terrible
extent to which it was carried. Prescott tells us that few writers have
ventured to estimate the yearly number of victims at less than twenty
thousand, while many put it as high as fifty thousand, in Mexico alone!
If we consider that the lowest of these estimates represents an average
of some four hundred a week, or nearly sixty a day, such figures
are appalling! And now we learn, beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the same practices obtained in America in times that must have
been ages before the Spanish conquest, and, judging by the frequency
of the representations of such things in these old bas-reliefs, as
extensively. In these sculptures we can see the very shape of the
knives used; the form of the plates or platters on which severed heads
of victims were placed, and other such details; and in a certain series
we are enabled to note the curious point, that, while the officiating
priests always wear full beards, the victims appear to have usually
possessed no hirsute adornments, or to have 'shaved clean,' as we term
it. It may be added that these ancient white people seem to have been a
totally different race from those the Spaniards found on the continent;
and that between the two there is believed to have been a gap lasting
for many ages, during which the country was overrun by Indian or other
barbaric hordes; though how or why this came about is one of those
mysteries that will probably never be unravelled.

       *       *       *       *       *

In conclusion, I have to acknowledge my indebtedness to the writers
whose books of travel I have named for the information I have made use
of; as well as to express a hope that the writer of the review in the
_Spectator_ will regard with indulgence the liberties I have taken with
his admirable article. I am sanguine enough to believe, however, that I
shall have the sympathy and good wishes of all these in the endeavour
here made to arouse public attention to the real meaning and importance
of the 'Venezuelan Question'; and to add to the number of those who
feel an interest in the future status and ultimate exploration of
the mysterious Roraima. I wish also to express my thanks to Messrs.
Leigh Ellis and Fred Hyland, the artists to whom the illustrations
were entrusted, for the thought and care they have bestowed upon the
work, and the successful manner in which they have carried out my
conceptions.

For the rest--if objection be taken to the accounts of the mountain
and what is to be found on its summit given by the characters in my
story--I desire to claim the licence of the romance-writer to maintain
their accuracy--till the contrary be proved. If this shall serve to
stimulate to renewed efforts at exploration, so much the better, and
another of my objects in writing the book will thereby have been
attained.

  FRANK AUBREY.




CONTENTS.


  CHAPTER I.                       PAGE
  "WILL NO ONE EXPLORE RORAIMA?"      1

  CHAPTER II.
  MONELLA                            17

  CHAPTER III.
  THE JOURNEY FROM THE COAST         26

  CHAPTER IV.
  THE FIRST VIEW OF RORAIMA          36

  CHAPTER V.
  IN THE 'DEMONS' WOOD'              45

  CHAPTER VI.
  THE MYSTERIOUS CAVERN              58

  CHAPTER VII.
  THE CANYON WITHIN THE MOUNTAIN     70

  CHAPTER VIII.
  ALONE ON RORAIMA'S SUMMIT          79

  CHAPTER IX.
  VISION OR REALITY?                 88

  CHAPTER X.
  IN SIGHT OF EL DORADO!             98

  CHAPTER XI.
  ULAMA, PRINCESS OF MANOA          106

  CHAPTER XII.
  A PRELIMINARY SKIRMISH            119

  CHAPTER XIII.
  A KING'S GREETING                 129

  CHAPTER XIV.
  DAKLA                             141

  CHAPTER XV.
  MARVELS OF MANOA                  153

  CHAPTER XVI.
  LEONARD AND ULAMA                 167

  CHAPTER XVII.
  THE FIGHT ON THE HILLSIDE         177

  CHAPTER XVIII.
  THE LEGEND OF MELLENDA            188

  CHAPTER XIX.
  HOPES AND FEARS                   199

  CHAPTER XX.
  THE MESSAGE OF APALANO            210

  CHAPTER XXI.
  THE GREAT DEVIL-TREE              221

  CHAPTER XXII.
  SMILES AND TEARS                  236

  CHAPTER XXIII.
  THE DEVIL-TREE BY MOONLIGHT       246

  CHAPTER XXIV.
  TRAPPED!                          256

  CHAPTER XXV.
  'IN THE DEVIL-TREE'S LARDER'      268

  CHAPTER XXVI.
  CORYON                            282

  CHAPTER XXVII.
  ON THE 'DEVIL-TREE'S LADLE'       290

  CHAPTER XXVIII.
  RALLYING TO THE CALL              301

  CHAPTER XXIX.
  'THOU ART MY LORD MELLENDA!'      308

  CHAPTER XXX.
  A TERRIBLE VENGEANCE              317

  CHAPTER XXXI.
  'THE SON OF APALANO!'             327

  CHAPTER XXXII.
  THE TREE'S LAST MEAL              339

  CHAPTER XXXIII.
  THE LAST OF THE GREAT DEVIL-TREE  350

  CHAPTER XXXIV.
  A MARRIAGE AND A PARTING          360

  CHAPTER XXXV.
  JUST IN TIME!                     369

  CHAPTER XXXVI.
  THE END                           382




  LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.


  "IT WAS PASSED ABOUT; NOW LIFTED HIGH IN THE AIR
      BY ONE END, THEN BY THE OTHER"                   _Frontispiece_

  "THERE BEFORE THEM ... THEY SAW THE MYSTERIOUS
      RORAIMA"                                      _To face page 39_

  "A SCENE THAT WAS GRATEFULLY REFRESHING"              "     "   72

  "THE SUN WAS JUST HIGH ENOUGH TO LIGHT UP THE
      GLISTENING TOWERS AND CUPOLAS"                    "     "  106

  "SHE STOOD REGARDING THEM WITH WONDERING LOOKS"       "     "  115

  "OTHER BRANCHES SWOOPED DOWN, COILING ROUND HIM"      "     "  252

  "HE WAS STANDING WITH ONE ARM EXTENDED"               "     "  286

  ON THE DEVIL-TREE'S LADLE                             "     "  297




  THE
  DEVIL-TREE OF EL DORADO.




CHAPTER I.

"WILL NO ONE EXPLORE RORAIMA?"[3]

      [3] The Indians of British Guiana pronounce this word Roreema.


Beneath the verandah of a handsome, comfortable-looking residence near
Georgetown, the principal town of British Guiana, a young man sat one
morning early in the year 1890, attentively studying a volume that
lay open on a small table before him. It was easy to see that he was
reading something that was, for him at least, of more than ordinary
interest, something that seemed to carry his thoughts far away from
the scene around him; for when, presently, he raised his eyes from the
book, they looked out straight before him with a gaze that evidently
saw nothing of that on which they rested.

He was a handsome young fellow of, perhaps, twenty-two years of age,
rather tall, and well-made, with light wavy hair, and blue-grey eyes
that had in them an introspective, somewhat dreamy expression, but
that nevertheless could light up on occasion with an animated glance.

The house stood on a terrace that commanded a view of the sea, and,
in the distance, white sails could be seen making their way across
the blue water in the light breeze and the dazzling sunlight. Nearer
at hand were waving palms, glowing flowers, humming insects and
gaudily-coloured butterflies--all the beauties of a tropical garden. On
one side of him was the open window of a sitting-room that, shaded, as
it was, by the verandah, looked dark and cool compared with the glare
of the scorching sun outside.

From this room came the sounds of a grand piano and of the sweet voice
of a girl singing a simple and pathetic ballad.

At the moment the song ceased a brisk step was heard coming up the path
through the garden, and a good-looking young fellow of tall figure and
manly air made his way to where the other still sat with his eyes fixed
on vacancy, as one who neither sees nor hears aught of what is going on
about him.

"Ha, Leonard!" the new-comer exclaimed, with a light laugh, "caught you
dreaming again, eh? In another of your reveries?"

The other roused himself with a start, and looked to see who was his
visitor.

"Good-morning, Jack," he then answered with a slight flush. "Well,
yes--I suppose I must have been dreaming a little, for I did not hear
you coming."

"Bet I guess what you were dreaming about," said the one addressed as
Jack. "Roraima, as usual, eh?"

Leonard looked a little conscious.

"Why, yes," he admitted, smiling. "But," he continued seriously, "I
have just been reading something that set me thinking. It is about
Roraima, and it is old; that is to say, it is in an old number of a
paper bound up in this book that a friend has lent me. I should like to
read it to you. Shall I?"

"All right; if I may smoke the while. I suppose I may?" And the
speaker, anticipating consent, pulled out a pipe, filled and lighted
it, and then, having seated himself on a chair, crossed one leg over
the other, and added, "Now, then, I am ready. Fire away, old man."

And Leonard Elwood read the following extract from the book he had been
studying:--

  "Will no one explore Roraima, and bring us back the tidings which
  it has been waiting these thousands of years to give us? One of the
  greatest marvels and mysteries of the earth lies on the outskirt
  of one of our colonies, and we leave the mystery unsolved, the
  marvel uncared for. The description given of it (with a map and
  an illustrated sketch) in Mr. Barrington Brown's 'Canoe and Camp
  Life in British Guiana' (one of the most fascinating books of
  travel the present writer has read for a long time) is a thing
  to dream of by the hour. A great table of pink and white and red
  sandstone, 'interbedded with red shale,' rises from a height of
  five thousand one hundred feet above the level of the sea, two
  thousand feet sheer into the sapphire tropical sky. A forest crowns
  it; the highest waterfall in the world--only one, it would seem,
  out of several--tumbles from its summit, two thousand feet at one
  leap, three thousand more on a slope of forty-five degrees to the
  bottom of the valley, broad enough to be seen thirty miles away.
  Only two parties of civilised explorers have reached the base of
  the table--Sir Robert Schomburgk many years ago, and Mr. Brown and
  a companion in 1869[4]--each at different spots. Even the length
  of the mass has not been determined--Mr. Brown says from eight to
  twelve miles. And he cannot help speculating whether the remains
  of a former creation may not be found at the top. At any rate,
  there is the forest on its summit; of what trees is it composed?
  They cannot well be the same as those at its base. At a distance
  of fifteen hundred feet above sea-level the mango-tree of the
  West Indies, which produces fruit in abundance below, ceases to
  bear. The change in vegetation must be far more decided where the
  difference is between five thousand and seven thousand feet. Thus
  for millenniums this island of sandstone in the South American
  continent must have had its own distinct flora. What may be its
  fauna? Very few birds probably ascend to a height of two thousand
  feet in the air, the vulture tribe excepted. Nearly the whole of
  its animated inhabitants are likely to be as distinct as its plants.

      [4] Since then Roraima has been visited by two or three other
      travellers; but their accounts have added little to our
      knowledge. They entirely confirm Mr. Brown's statements as to
      its inaccessibility. (See Preface.)

  "Is it peopled with human beings? Who can tell? Why not? The
  climate must be temperate, delicious. There is abundance of water,
  very probably issuing from some lake on the summit. Have we here a
  group of unknown brothers cut off from all the rest of their kind?

  "The summit, Mr. Brown says, is inaccessible except by means of
  balloons. Well, that is a question to be settled on the spot,
  between an engineer and a first-rate 'Alpine.' (What is the
  satisfaction of standing on the ice-ridge of the Matterhorn, or
  crossing the lava-wastes of the Vatna-Jökull, compared to what
  would be the sensation of reaching that aerial forest and gazing
  plumb down over the sea of tropical verdure beneath, within an
  horizon the limits of which are absolutely beyond guessing?)

  "But put it that a balloon is required, surely it would be worth
  while for one of our learned societies to organise a balloon
  expedition for the purpose. No one can tell what problems in
  natural science might not be elucidated by the exploration. We have
  here an area of limited extent within which the secular variation
  of species, if any, must have gone on undisturbed, with only a
  limited number of conceivable exceptions, since at least the very
  beginning of the present age in the world's life. Can there be a
  fairer field for the testing of those theories which are occupying
  men's minds so much in our days? And if there be human beings on
  Roraima, what new data must not their language, their condition,
  contribute for the study of philologers, anthropologists,
  sociologists?

  "One more wonder remains to be told. The traveller speaks of
  two other mountains in the same district which are of the same
  description as Roraima--tables of sand-stone rising up straight
  into the blue--one larger than (though not as high as) Roraima
  itself. It is only because of their existence, and because, for
  aught that appears, they may be equally inaccessible with Roraima,
  that one does not venture to call Roraima _the_ greatest marvel and
  mystery of the earth!"

"What is that taken from?" asked Jack Templemore when the reader had
put down the book.

"It is from the _Spectator_.[5] I say, Jack, what a chance for an
explorer! Fancy people spending their money and risking their lives in
exploring an icy, cold, miserable, desolate region, like the Arctic
Circle, when there is a wondrous land here in the blue skies--yet
no wilderness of ice and snow--waiting to be won; and no one seems
to trouble about it! I do wish you would do as I have so often
suggested--set out with me upon an expedition and let us see whether
we cannot solve the secret of this mysterious mountain. You have the
leisure now, and I have the money. Dr. Lorien and his son are now on
their way back from near there; if they can undertake the journey, so
could we. Besides, it is not as though we were novices at this kind of
travel; we have been on short trips to the interior times enough."

      [5] This article appeared in the _Spectator_ of April 1877.

Jack Templemore looked dubious. He was, it is true, used to roughing
it in the wild parts of South America. He had been trained as an
engineer, and, for some years--he was now twenty-eight--had been
engaged in surveying or pioneering for new railways in various places
on the Continent. His father having lately died and left him and his
mother very poorly off, he was now somewhat anxiously looking about for
something that would give him permanent occupation, or the chance of
making a little money. He and Leonard Elwood were great friends; though
they were, in many respects, of very different characters. Elwood
was, essentially, of a romantic, poetic temperament; while Templemore
affected always a direct, practical, matter-of-fact way of looking at
things, as became an engineer. He was dark, tall and sturdily built,
with keen, steady grey eyes, and a straight-forward, good-humoured
manner. Both were used to hunting, shooting, and out-door sports, and,
as Elwood had just said, they had had many short hunting trips into the
interior together. But these had been in previous years, since which,
both had been away from Georgetown. Templemore, as above stated, had
been engaged in railway enterprises, Elwood had gone to Europe, where,
after some time spent in England, during which his father and mother
had both died, he had travelled for a while 'to see the world,' and
finally had come out again to Georgetown to look after some property
his father had left him. On arrival he had gone at first to an hotel,
but some old friends of his parents, who lived on an estate known as
'Meldona,' had insisted upon his staying with them for a while. Here he
found that his old friend Jack Templemore was a frequent visitor, and
it was an open secret that Maud Kingsford, elder of the two daughters
of Leonard's host, was the real attraction that brought him there so
constantly.

Now Jack Templemore, as has been said, was more practical-minded than
Leonard. He had not shrunk from the hardships and privations of wild
forest life when engaged upon railway-engineering work, when there
had been something definite in view--money to be made, instruction
to be gained, or promotion to be hoped for. But he did not view with
enthusiasm the idea of leaving comfortable surroundings for the
discomforts of rough travel, merely for travel's sake, or upon what
he deemed a sort of wild-goose chase. He had carefully read up all
the information that was obtainable concerning the mountain Roraima,
and had seen no reason to doubt the conclusions that had been come
to by those who ought to know--that it was inaccessible. Of what use
then to spend time, trouble, money--perhaps health and strength--upon
attempting the impossible?

So Jack Templemore argued, and, be it said, there was the other reason.
Why should he go away and separate himself for an indefinite period
from his only surviving parent and the girl he loved best in the world,
with no better object than a vague idea of scrambling up a mountain
that had been pronounced by practical men unclimbable?

Thus, when Leonard appealed to him on this particular morning, merely
because he had come across something that had fired his enthusiasm
afresh, Jack did not respond to the proposal with the cordiality that
the other evidently wished for.

"I don't mind going a short trip with you, old man," Jack said
presently, "for a little hunting, if you feel restless and are
a-hungering after a spell of wandering--a few days, or a week or two,
if you like--but a long expedition with nothing to go upon, as it were,
seems to me only next door to midsummer madness."

Leonard turned away with an air of disappointment, and just then Maud
Kingsford, who had been playing and singing inside the room, stepped
out.

Leonard discreetly went into the house and left the two alone, and
Maud greeted Jack with a rosy tell-tale flush that made her pretty
face look still more charming. In appearance she was neither fair nor
dark, her hair and eyebrows being brown and her eyes hazel. She was an
unaffected, good-hearted girl, more thoughtful and serious, perhaps,
than girls of her age usually are--she was twenty, while Stella, the
younger sister, was between eighteen and nineteen--and had shown her
capacity for managing a home by her success in that line in their own
home since her mother's death a few years before. The practical-minded
Jack, who had duly noted this, saw in it additional cause for
admiration; but, indeed, it was only a natural outcome of her innate
good sense. She now asked what her lover and Leonard had been talking
of.

"The usual thing," was Jack's reply. "He's mad to go upon an exploring
expedition; thinks we could succeed where others have failed. It's
so unlikely, you know. Now, if he would only look at the thing
practically----"

Maud burst into a merry laugh.

"You do amuse me--you two," she exclaimed; at which Jack looked a
little disconcerted. "_You_ always insisting so upon being strictly
non-speculative, and Leonard, with his romantic phantasies, and his
dreams and visions, and vague aspirations after castles in the air. You
are always hammering away at him, trying to instil practical ideas into
him with the same praiseworthy perseverance, though you know that in
all these years you have never made the least little bit of impression
upon him. Your ideas and his are like oil and water, you know. They
will never mix, shake them together as you will."

"But--don't you think I am right? Isn't it common sense?"

"Quite right, of course; and you _are_ persevering; I'll say that for
you."

"For the matter of that, so's Leonard," said Jack with a good-natured
laugh. "He's as persevering with this fad of his as any man I ever
met in my life. I do believe he's got a fixed idea that he has only
to start upon this enterprise, and he will come back a made man with
untold and undreamt-of wealth and----"

"And a princess for a bride--the fair maid of his dreams," Maud put in,
still laughing. "We have not heard so much of her, by the bye, lately.
He has been rather shy of those things since his return from Europe,
and does not like to be spoken to about them. We began to think he had
grown out of his youthful fancies."

The fact was, that, from his childhood, Leonard had been accustomed
to strange dreams and fancies. These five--Leonard, Templemore, and
Mr. Kingsford's son and two daughters--had been children together, and
in those days Leonard had talked freely to his childish companions of
all his imaginative ideas; and as they grew older, he had not varied
much in this respect. Moreover, Leonard had had an Indian nurse, named
Carenna, who had encouraged him in his fantastic dreamings, and who
had, by her Indian folk-lore tales, early excited his imagination.
Her son Matava, too, had been Leonard's constant companion almost so
long as he could remember, first in all sorts of boyish games and
amusements, and later in his hunting expeditions; and both Matava and
Carenna had been always more devoted to Leonard than even to his father
and mother.

But when Mr. and Mrs. Elwood left the estate they had been cultivating,
to go to England, the two Indians had gone away into the interior
to live at an Indian settlement with their own tribe. About twice a
year, however--or even oftener, if there were occasion--Matava still
came down to the coast upon some little trading expedition with
other Indians; and at such times he never failed to come to see the
Kingsfords and inquire after Leonard.

The Dr. Lorien, of whom mention had been made by Leonard, was a retired
medical practitioner who had turned botanist and orchid-collector.
He had been a ship's doctor, and in that capacity had voyaged pretty
well all over the world. Since he had given that up he had travelled
further still by land--in the tropical regions in the heart of Africa,
in Siam, the Malay Peninsular and, latterly, in South America--in
search of orchids and other rare floral and botanical specimens. The
vicinity of Roraima being one of the most remarkable in the world for
such things--though so difficult of access as to be but seldom visited
by white men--it is not surprising that he had lately planned a journey
thither.

From this journey the doctor and his son were now daily expected back.
One of the Indians of their party had, indeed, already arrived, having
been despatched in advance, a few days before, to announce their safe
return.

Thus it came about that Templemore and Maud, while still talking, were
not greatly surprised at the sudden appearance of Matava, who stated
that he had come down with the doctor's party, who would follow very
quickly on his heels.

Maud, who knew the Indian and his mother well, received him
kindly; and, to his great delight, was able to inform him that his
'young master'--as he always called Leonard Elwood--had returned to
Georgetown, and was at present with them.

Matava had, indeed, expected this, for he had heard of Leonard's
intention at his last visit to the coast some six months before. He
was greatly pleased to find he was not to be disappointed in his
expectation. Moreover, the Indian declared, he had news for him--"news
of the greatest importance"--and begged to be allowed to see him at
once. So Maud sent him into the house--where he knew his way about
perfectly--to find Leonard; and then, turning to Templemore, she said,
laughing,

"I wonder what his 'important' intelligence can be? Some deeper secret
than usual that his old nurse has to tell him, I suppose."

"I hope it's nothing likely to rouse a further desire to set off on
this mad-cap expedition he has so long had in his mind," Templemore
returned; "for," looking at her with a sigh, "if he _should_ make up
his mind to start, I am, in effect, pledged to go too, whether I wish
or not."

"Why should you expect it? and how are you obliged to go?" Maud
inquired with evident uneasiness.

"I know that Leonard saw Dr. Lorien in London before he came out last,
and had a long talk with him. When he learned of the expedition upon
which the doctor was then setting out, he was much annoyed at being
unable to join him. He said, however, that he should be in Georgetown
himself in a few months, and hoped to see the doctor on his return; and
he particularly asked him to try to collect for him all the information
and particulars he could concerning the best route by which to make
the journey to Roraima. Dr. Lorien told me all this before he left
us, adding that he felt certain Leonard's object in coming again
to Georgetown was quite as much to arrange for an expedition as his
ostensible one of looking after his property. And _I_ know, too, from
what I have seen since Leonard has been back, that his thoughts are
full of the idea. You say he does not now talk much of it to you or to
others?"

"No; and as I told you just now, we had begun rather to think he had
given up his former romantic yearnings for adventure; and, when you
have referred to them before him, I have thought that you were only
teasing him a little about old times."

"Oh dear no; by no means. Whatever he may say, or leave unsaid to you
and his general acquaintances, he is, in his heart, just as much set
upon it as ever."

"It is odd, that," Maud observed thoughtfully, "because he used to
be so fond of telling us about his dreams and visions and all the
castles in the air and half-mystical imaginings he used to build upon
them. But," she went on slowly, "I have noticed that, since his long
absence from us, Leonard Elwood is very different from what he was as
I remember him. He seems, at times, so reserved and distant, I almost
feel inclined to call him 'Mr. Elwood' instead of 'Leonard.' And he is,
in a manner, unsociable, too. He is so preoccupied always, so silent,
and so wrapped up in himself, that you generally have to wait, if you
speak to him, while he collects his thoughts--brings them back from the
distant skies or wherever they have gone a-wandering--before he replies
to you. Not that he is intentionally cool or distant, I think; and I
am sure he is just as good-hearted as ever. Yet there _is_ a change of
some sort. Stella says the same. And, do you know, he sometimes gives
me a sort of feeling as though he were not English at all, but of some
other race, and that he feels half out-of-place amongst us, a fish out
of water, as it were? I wonder whether he is in love!" And Maud gave a
ringing little laugh.

Templemore shook his head.

"If he were, it would be with some young lady on the other side of the
Atlantic," he returned. "And he would not be desirous of prolonging
his stay on this side. No; _I_ know what is the matter with him. He
talks freely enough to me. And, now that he is expecting Dr. Lorien
back, he is gradually working himself up into a state of excitement
and expectation. He has quite made up his mind for some news or
information--Heaven only knows why--and that is what makes him by turns
restless and preoccupied. If, therefore, what Matava has to tell has
anything to do with what I know to be so much in his thoughts, it may
be the means of deciding him to go; and then I should have to go too."

"But why? I don't see what it has to do with you, Jack."

"It has this to do with me, dear Maud," said Templemore, taking her
hand; "Leonard, some time ago, made me a very handsome--to me a very
tempting--offer if I would make up my mind to start with him on this
vague expedition. He offered me £300 clear, he paying all expenses,
and giving me, besides, half of whatever came out of it. Unfortunately
for myself, I am not now in a position to say 'no' to such an offer. I
have been, now, nearly a year waiting for something to 'turn up.' My
mother has barely enough to live on, and depends upon me for ordinary
comforts, to say nothing of little luxuries; and what I had saved up
from former engagements is steadily getting less and less, and will
shortly disappear. I do wish with all my heart I could get anything
else, almost, rather than this wild-goose affair of Leonard's. Yet
nothing has offered itself; so what am I to do? For your sake, for the
hope of being able one day to provide a home for you----"

"Nay, Jack," Maud interposed, with a deep flush, "do not say for _my_
sake. I would not have you set out on an enterprise of danger and
difficulty for my sake. But I see clearly enough you must do it, if it
be again offered, for your mother's sake. Yes, for hers, you must." The
girl hesitated, and it was easy to see she found it hard to say the
words, but she went on bravely, "So, I repeat, if it be again offered,
you must accept it, Jack. And be sure I will look after your mother,
and comfort her while you are away."

"That is spoken like my own dear girl," Templemore answered with
emotion. "Yes, I cannot well refuse; and I know I may look to you to
console my mother. You will comfort each other."

Just then they heard Leonard's voice calling out in excited tones for
Templemore. A moment or two later he came rushing out of the house.

"Jack, Jack!" he cried. "Such a strange thing! Here is our opportunity!
Matava has brought some extraordinary news!"

Leonard was so incoherent in his excitement, that it was some time
before his hearers grasped his meaning.

His news amounted, in effect, to this. A white man had been staying
for some time near the Indian village at which Carenna and her son
Matava lived; and he had had many talks with both about a project for
ascending the mountain of Roraima. It being an arduous undertaking, he
sought the co-operation of one or two other white men; and Leonard's
old nurse had urged him to communicate with her young master, who
would shortly be in Georgetown, assuring him that he would be the very
one--from the interest and enthusiasm he would feel--to join him and
help him to achieve success if success were possible. Matava, who knew
of Dr. Lorien's presence in the district, had suggested to the stranger
to go to see him, and a meeting had thus been brought about. The doctor
would tell him the result; but the main thing was that the stranger had
sent an invitation to Leonard to join him and to bring, if he pleased,
one other white man, but no more. The doctor was now at the Settlement,
near the mouth of the Essequibo, transferring to the steamer, from
the Indian canoes in which they had been brought down the river, his
botanical treasures and other trophies of his journey. If Leonard
wished to go back with the canoes and the Indians who were with them,
he would have to let them know at once, and they would wait. Otherwise
they would be on their way back in a day or two; which would involve
the organising of a fresh expedition--a matter of great trouble--should
Leonard make up his mind to proceed later.

The enthusiastic Leonard needed no time to make up his mind.

"I shall go," said he. "If you will come too, Jack, I shall be only too
glad. But, if not, I may be able to find some one else; or I shall go
alone. So I shall send word at once to keep the boats and the Indians."

"But," objected Maud Kingsford, "consider! You know nothing of this
stranger; he may be a blackleg, an escaped murderer or desperado, or
all sorts of things."

"No, no! Carenna knows. She has sent word that I can trust this man,
and she knows. She is too fond of me to let me get mixed up with any
doubtful character. Dr. Lorien, too, and Harry have seen him, and
talked with him, and think well of him; so Matava says. I shall know
more when I see them in a day or two. Meantime, I shall keep the canoes
and Indians, and risk it."

Then he rushed off to have a further talk with Matava, and, as he said,
see about getting the Indian "some grub."

Jack and Maud, left alone, looked at each other in dismay. It had been
one thing to talk vaguely of what they would do in case Leonard should
take what at the time seemed a very unlikely step. It was quite another
to be thus suddenly brought face to face with it.

Maud turned very pale and seemed about to faint. She felt keenly how
hard it would be to see her lover depart upon an adventure of this
uncertain character, the end or duration of which no one could even
guess at. But she recovered her self-possession with an effort and,
looking steadily at Templemore, said,

"What you said you would do for our sakes is to be very quickly put to
the test, it seems. You--will--go, Jack?"

"Yes," he answered firmly; "since it is your wish."

"You must," she answered. "It is hard to lose you; it will be hard for
us both. But go--and go with a good heart. Be sure I will be a daughter
to your mother while you are away."

He took her hand in his and pressed it to his lips.

"For your sake, dear Maud, I shall go," he said. "For your sake and for
my mother's; in the hope that some success may result; but not--Heaven
knows--for the mere sordid hope of gain."




CHAPTER II.

MONELLA.


Two days later Dr. Lorien and his son arrived in Georgetown and,
after taking rooms at the Kaieteur Hotel, went at once to call upon
the Kingsfords. This haste was, in reality, prompted by Harry, whose
thoughts were bent upon his hopes of once more seeing the pretty
Stella; but the ostensible reason that he urged upon his father was
somewhat different, and had to do with the message of which they were
the bearers from the white stranger they had met in their travels.

At the evening dinner the matter was discussed, Mr. Kingsford and his
son Robert and the others being present.

The two travellers had much to tell of their adventures, which had
been full of both interest and danger, apart from the matter of the
stranger's message.

"And yet, I think," observed the doctor, thoughtfully, "our meeting
with this stranger, and his behaviour, impressed me more than almost
all else that happened to us."

"How so? What is he like?" asked Mr. Kingsford.

"In figure he is very tall; of a most commanding stature and
appearance. _I_ am not short."

"Why, you are over six feet!" put in Harry.

"And yet I almost think, if he had held his arm straight out, I could
have walked under it with my hat on, and without stooping."

"I'm sure you could, dad," Harry corroborated.

"As to age--there I confess myself at sea. As a doctor I am accustomed
to judge of age; yet he thoroughly puzzled me. If I could believe in
the possibility of a man's being a hundred and fifty years old and yet
remaining strong and hale and vigorous, I should not be surprised if
he had claimed that age. On the other hand, if one could believe in a
young, stalwart, muscular man of thirty with the face and white hair
of an old-looking, but not _very_ old man, then I could have believed
it if I had been told he was no more than thirty. In fact, he was a
complete puzzle to me; a mystery. But the most remarkable thing about
him was the expression of his eyes; they were the most extraordinary I
have ever seen in my life."

"Wild--mad-looking?" Templemore asked.

"Oh no, by no means; quite the reverse. Very steady and piercing; but
wonderfully fascinating. Mild and kind-looking to a fault; and yet
changing to a look of quiet, almost stern resolution that had in it
nothing hard, or cruel, or disagreeable. In fact, I hardly know how to
describe that look, or convey an idea of it, except by saying that it
was something between the gaze of a lion and that of a Newfoundland
dog. It had all the majesty, the magnanimity, the conscious power of
the one, with the benevolence and wistful kindness and affection of the
other. Never have I seen such an expression. I really did not know the
human countenance could express the mingled characteristics one seemed
to read so plainly in his--all kindly, all noble, all suggestive of
sincerity and integrity."

"You _are_ enthusiastic!" said Robert, laughing.

The old doctor coloured up a little; then took out his handkerchief and
wiped his face.

"I know it sounds strange to hear an old man of the world like me
speak so forcibly about a man's appearance," he returned; "but, if it
is true, I do not see why I should not say it. Ask Harry here."

"I couldn't take my eyes off his face," Harry declared. "He fairly
fascinated me. I felt I should have to do anything he told me; even to
taking my pistol and killing the first person I met. I do believe I
should have done it--or any other out-of-the way thing. And he made you
feel, too, as though you liked him so, that you longed to do any mortal
thing you could to please him."

"What's his name?" asked Templemore.

"Monella."

"Monella? Is that all? No other name?"

"None that I heard. And as to his nationality, I cannot even so much
as guess. I have been in Central Africa, in Siam, in India, in China,
in Russia, and have picked up a smattering of the languages of those
countries; but this man jabbered away in all; additionally, he spoke
French, German, Spanish and Portuguese, besides English. So much I
know. How many more he speaks I can't say."

"Injun," said Harry.

"Oh yes, I forgot that. We had some of three different tribes with us,
and he spoke to each in his own tongue."

"And what is his object in going in for this Roraima exploration?"
asked Mr. Kingsford.

"He has a curious theory. He declares that the ancient island-city of
El Dorado--or Manoa--was not at the lower end or part of the Pacaraima
mountains, as some have surmised, but at the further and highest point
of the range, which is Roraima itself. He holds that the great lake
or inland sea of Parima once washed around the bases of all those
mountains, making islands of what are now their summits; and that the
highest and most inaccessible of all, Roraima, was selected by the
Manoans for their fastness, and for the site of their wonderful 'Golden
City.'"

"But that theory won't help him to get up there, will it?" Jack asked.

"Ah, but there is something else. He states that he was brought up by
some people, the last members of what had once been a nation, but has
now died out. They lived in a secluded valley high up on the slopes of
the Andes. He has travelled all over the world, and went back to these
friends of his, only to find that they were all dead, save one, and
that he was fast dying. This survivor gave him an ancient parchment
with plans and diagrams, by means of which, it was declared, the top of
the mountain can be reached, where will be found whatever traces may
be left of the famous city of Manoa or El Dorado. This man, Monella,
has other old parchments which he can read, but I could not--he showed
me some--and from these he declared his belief that there is almost
unlimited wealth to be gained by those who find the site of this
wonderful city."

All this time Leonard had been listening with sparkling eyes and
flushed cheeks, though in silence. Here he glanced with a satisfied
smile at Templemore, and said,

"There's method in all that; at all events he is not undertaking the
thing in a haphazard way and without something to go upon, that's
certain."

Jack did not look hopeful.

"It is probably just as wild and hopeless an adventure all the same,"
was his reply. "What 'directions' or 'plans' or 'diagrams' can help
a man to-day after the lapse of hundreds and hundreds of years--even
if they were reliable, and the old party who handed them over was not
mad--as he probably was?"

"As to Monella," observed the doctor, "I could see no sign of madness
in him. He is one of the most intelligent, best-informed men I ever
met. I cannot say anything, of course, of his informant."

"Has he any money, do you suppose--this man?" Robert asked.

"I don't know. But he pays the Indians well, and has got together a
lot of stores, it seems; which must have been a costly thing to do.
They have been brought over the mountains from Brazil. And he specially
said you need not trouble to load yourself up with much in the way
of stores--only sufficient to get to him. After that you will be all
right. And he said nothing about money being wanted. But," and here
the doctor hesitated, "he is very particular as to the character and
disposition of those he purposes to work with. In fact, he subjected
me to a long sort of cross-examination respecting our friend Leonard
here. He had already gained a lot of information about him from the
old Indian nurse, it seemed, and I was surprised at the details he
had picked up and remembered. In fact, Master Leonard," continued the
doctor, addressing the young man, "he seemed to know you almost as well
as if he had lived with you for years. And your friend Mr. Templemore,
too, he seemed to know about him, and to expect that he would join you."

"How could that be?" Jack demanded.

"Oh, from the old nurse and Matava, I suppose."

"To tell you the honest truth," Harry interposed, "I believe there's
some hocus-pocus business about those two. She is reputed to be a
witch, you know; not a bad witch, but a good sort. And I quite believe
Monella to be a wizard; also of a good sort. And when those two laid
their heads together, they could know a lot between them, I suspect. I
should not at all wonder if he were not magician enough to lead you to
the 'golden castle,' or 'city,' or whatever it is, and find its hidden
stores of gold. I wish I had a chance to join him. But dad's wanting me
somewhere else. So I am out of it."

"Yes," observed his father. "We have to go on to Rio, where I have some
law business on. But we shall not be away a great while, and then we
are going back to that district."

"Going back?" said Templemore in surprise.

"Yes, there is a lot to be done there. It is a wonderful place for my
sort of work, and we really saw but very little of it after all. So we
are going again when we return from Rio; but I cannot at all tell when
that may be."

The doctor was a fine-looking specimen of a hardy, bronzed traveller.
He was, as has been said, over six feet in height; his hair and beard
were iron-grey, his complexion was a little florid beneath its tan,
and his expression good-humoured and often jovial. His son, Harry, was
somewhat slight in build, but wiry, and had been used to knocking about
with his father. He was a young fellow with boundless animal spirits
and plenty of pluck and courage. His ready kindness to every one made
him a general favourite; and the lively, captivating Stella and he were
special friends.

Mr. Kingsford asked the doctor whether any time had been estimated for
the length of the expedition.

"That would be difficult," Dr. Lorien answered. "Apart from the long
and tedious journey there, there is the girdle of forest that surrounds
Roraima to be cut through. That may take months, I am told."

"Months!" The exclamation came from Maud who, with Stella, had been a
silent but appreciative listener.

"Yes. It is a curious thing, but this forest belt is never approached
even by any of the Indian tribes. They look upon it with superstitious
awe and will not even go near it. Indeed, they all regard Roraima with
a sort of horror. They declare there is a lake on the top guarded by
demons and large white eagles, and that it will never be gazed on
by mortal eyes; that in the forest that surrounds it are monstrous
serpents--'camoodis' they call them--larger far than any to be found
elsewhere in the land; besides these, there are 'didis', gigantic
man-apes, bigger and more ferocious and formidable than the African
gorilla. Altogether, this wood has a very bad reputation, and no
Indian will venture near it. Indeed, the mountain of Roraima and all
its surroundings are looked upon as weird and uncanny. As a former
traveller has expressed it, 'its very name has come to be surrounded by
a halo of dread and indefinable fear.'"

"How, then, is the necessary road to be made through this promising bit
of woodland?" asked Templemore.

"_There_ has been Monella's difficulty," returned the doctor. "But
for that, doubtless, he would not have troubled about any one else's
joining him. But, though he is very popular amongst the Indians, they
cannot get over their fear of the 'demons'' wood, as they call it.
They are, in fact, quite devoted to him, for he has done much that has
made him both loved and feared--as one must always be to gain the real
devotion of these people. He has effected many wonderful cures amongst
them, I was told; but, more than that, he has saved the lives of two
or three by acts of great personal courage. So that, at last, he even
prevailed upon them to enter the 'haunted wood' with him. But they are
making very little progress, it appears; he cannot keep them together,
and they give way to panic at the slightest thing and make a bolt of
it; then he has to go hunting over the country for them, and it takes
days to get them together again--and so on. He is in hopes that the
presence and example of other white men will inspire them with greater
confidence and courage."

"A promising and inviting outlook, I must say," said Jack, eyeing
Leonard gravely.

"Never mind," Leonard exclaimed with enthusiasm. "If he can face it, so
can we; and if it is good enough for him to brave such difficulties,
it is good enough for us. It only shows what sterling stuff he must be
made of!"

At this Jack gave a sort of grunt that was clearly far from implying
assent to Leonard's view of the matter.

There was further talk, but it added little to the information given
above; and, inasmuch as Leonard had already made up his mind, almost
in advance, and had to ask no one's permission but his own, he
determined at once to set about the necessary preparations; and Jack
Templemore--though with evident reluctance--agreed to accompany him.

"I have a list of all the things I took with me," remarked Dr. Lorien,
"and notes of a few that I afterwards found would have been useful
and that I consequently regretted I had not taken; and also some
specially suggested by the stranger Monella. You had better copy them
all out carefully, for you will find it will save you a lot of time and
trouble."

Thus it came about that in less than a week their preparations were all
made, and the two, with Matava as guide, were ready to set out. Matava
had with him fourteen or fifteen Indians, who had formed the doctor's
party, and these, and the canoes with the stores on board, were soon
after waiting at the Settlement, ready to make a start.

Then, one sunny day at the beginning of the dry season, the Kingsfords,
with Mrs. Templemore, and the doctor and his son, all took the steamer
to the "Penal Settlement" (a place a few miles inside the mouth of
the Essequibo river, the starting place of all such parties), to see
the young men off and wish them God speed. When it came to this point
the struggle was a hard one for Maud and for Templemore's mother; but
they bore themselves bravely--outwardly at least. The three canoes put
off amidst much fluttering of handkerchiefs, and soon all that could
be seen of the adventurers were three small specks, gradually growing
less and less, as the boats made their way up the bosom of the great
Essequibo river--here some eight miles in width. Their intended journey
had been kept more or less a secret; such had been the wish of him they
were going to join. Hence no outside friends had accompanied the party
to see them off. Those who knew of their going away thought they were
only bent upon a hunting trip of a little longer duration than usual.

For two loving hearts left behind the separation was a trying one.
For a few days Mrs. Templemore stayed on at 'Meldona' with Maud, and
the presence of Dr. Lorien and the vivacious Harry helped to cheer
them somewhat; but, when the doctor and his son started for Rio, the
others returned sadly to the routine of their everyday life, with many
anxious speculations and forebodings concerning the fortunes of the two
explorers.




CHAPTER III.

THE JOURNEY FROM THE COAST.


The greater part of the interior of British Guiana consists of dense
forests which are mostly unexplored. No roads traverse them, and but
little would be known of the savannas, or open grassy plains, and the
mountains that lie beyond--and they would indeed be inaccessible--were
it not for the many wide rivers by which the forests are intersected.
These form the only means of communication between the coast and the
interior at the present day; and so vast is the extent of territory
covered with forest growth that it is probable many years will elapse
before any road communication is opened up between the sea and the open
country lying beyond the woods.

Of these vast forests little--or rather practically nothing--is known
save what can be seen of them from the rivers by those voyaging to and
fro in canoes. There are a limited number of spots at which the Indians
of the savannas come to the banks of the rivers to launch their canoes
when journeying to the coast; and to reach these places they have
what are known as 'Indian paths' through the intervening woods. These
so-called paths are, for the most part, of such a character, however,
that only Indians accustomed to them can find their way by them. Any
white man who should venture to trust himself alone in them would
inevitably get quickly and hopelessly lost. Hence--save for a few
miles near the line of coast--there are, as yet, absolutely no roads in
the country.

Naturally, under such conditions, the forest scenery is of the wildest
imaginable character, and its flora and fauna flourish unchecked in the
utmost luxuriance of tropical savage life; for the country lies but a
few degrees from the equator, and is far more sparsely populated than
even the surrounding tropical regions of Brazil and Venezuela.

Fortunately, however, for those who for any reason have occasion to
traverse this wild region, there is no lack of water-ways. Several
grand rivers of great breadth lead from the coast in different
directions, most of them being navigable (for canoes and small boats)
for great distances, leaving only comparatively short stretches of
forest land to be crossed by travellers desiring to reach the open
plains and hills.

Of these rivers, the Essequibo is one of the finest, and it was by
this route that the two friends, Elwood and Templemore, set out, under
Matava's guidance, to reach their destination. From this river they
branched off into one of its affluents, the Potaro, noted for its
wonderful waterfall, the Kaieteur, which they visited _en route_. Here
their canoes were left and exchanged for lighter ones, hired from the
Ackawoi Indians, who live at a little distance above the fall; their
stores and camp equipage being carried round. So far the journey had
been uneventful, save for a little excitement in passing the various
cataracts and rapids; but the two young men knew their way fairly well
thus far, having visited the Kaieteur with Matava some years before.

When, however, the journey was resumed above the Kaieteur, the route
was new to them; and, among the first things they noticed, were the
alligators with which the river abounded. In the Essequibo they had
seen none, and not many below the fall; but from this point, as far as
they ascended the river, they saw them continually. Once they had a
narrow escape. They were making arrangements for camping on the bank,
and were nearing the shore in the last of the canoes, when a tremendous
blow and a great splash overturned the boat, and they found themselves
struggling in the stream. An alligator had struck the canoe a blow with
its tail and upset it. Fortunately, however, it was in shallow water;
and the Indians, seeing how matters were, made a great splashing, and
thus frightened away the reptile. The contents of the canoe were partly
recovered, not without difficulty; but some were damaged by the water.

As they proceeded up the river, the rapids and cataracts became more
frequent, and the negotiation of them more difficult, till they reached
a spot where further navigation was impossible, and they had to take to
the forest, their stores and baggage being henceforward carried by the
Indians.

This marked the commencement of the really arduous part of the journey.
So long as the stores were carried in the boats, the Indians had been
cheerful and docile, and easy to manage. But now their work was harder,
and food was scarcer--for game is difficult to shoot in the forest.
Then, after two or three days, the gloom of the woods began to have an
evident effect upon their spirits; they first became depressed, and
then began to grumble. This would not have been of so much consequence,
perhaps, but that Matava became apprehensive that they might desert.
They were not people of his tribe, it seemed; they had come with Dr.
Lorien from a different district; and when they began to understand
that the eventual destination was Roraima, they became still more
depressed.

All the Indian tribes who have heard of Roraima, in any way, have the
same superstitious dread of it; and those now with the two young men
were evidently not exceptional in this respect. Templemore and Elwood
began to feel anxious and, to make matters worse, food ran short
for the Indians. The latter live chiefly on the native food, a kind
of bread called cassava, and, of this, a good deal of what they had
brought with them had been lost or spoiled by the upsetting of the
canoe.

In consequence, Matava advised that they should interrupt their direct
journey to turn aside to an Indian settlement that he knew of, about
a day's journey off the route they were pursuing; there they would
be able to replenish their stores, he thought; and to this course a
reluctant assent was given by the two friends.

It turned out to be more than a day's journey, however; but they
reached the place on the second day. It was called Karalang; there were
not more than a dozen huts, and the people at first said that they
had no food to spare; but eventually promised to procure some if the
travellers would wait a few days; and this they were perforce compelled
to do.

This village was situated on a hill in a piece of open country in the
midst of the great forest; and, during their enforced rest, the two
friends were enabled to engage in a little hunting, and to see more of
the wild life of the woods than they had seen before.

The first thing they did on arrival was to procure a couple of fowls
for cooking, of which there were plenty in the village. But these were
of no use as food for the Indians, who never eat them. Throughout the
country this is everywhere the case; the Indians keep fowls, yet never
eat them; and it is said that, were it not for the vampire bats and
tiger-cats, these would increase beyond all reason. Though, however,
they object to fowls as a diet, they have no dislike to fish, and they
were not long in discovering that there were some in a stream that ran
near the village; and a supply was caught by their method of poisoning
the fish in such a way that they float on top of the water as if dead,
but are nevertheless palatable and wholesome as food. The poison is
prepared from a root.

Amongst the miscellaneous stores the two had brought they had a liberal
supply of firearms--five Winchester rifles, half-a-dozen revolvers
and two guns, each with double barrels, one for shot and the other
for ball. The extra weapons were in case of loss or accident, and
Templemore had a good stock of tobacco, for he never felt happy for
long together without his pipe.

On their way up they had had very little shooting. Jack had indeed
killed an alligator, by way of relieving his feelings after the
upsetting of the canoe; but there had been very little time to spare
for sport. Every morning they had started as soon as the morning meal
had been eaten, and had gone into camp at night only in time to cook a
meal before it became dark. For in this part of the world night closes
in at about half-past six on the shortest days of the year, and a
little before seven on the longest. Practically, therefore, the varying
seasons bring little difference in the length of the days. One cannot
there get up at three or four o'clock and "have a good long day," with
an evening keeping light till eight and nine o'clock, as in summer-time
in Europe. Hence the days seem short for travel and sport, and the
nights very long.

"I think we've stuck to it pretty well," Jack observed in the evening,
as he sat smoking by the camp fire, outside their tent--for though the
day had been hot the evening was chilly--"and we deserve a rest. So it
is just as well. We will have two or three days' shooting, and a look
round, before we go on to tackle 'the old man.'"

'The old man' was the one they were on their way to see--the one Dr.
Lorien had met and described so enthusiastically. Jack was a little
sceptical as to whether the good-natured doctor had not sacrificed
strict accuracy to his friendly feeling for the stranger. Leonard, too,
felt full of curiosity upon the same point.

"I can scarcely believe, you know," Jack continued, "that our friend
will turn out all that the doctor pictured him."

"I shall be glad if he does, at any rate," Leonard made reply. "He
would be almost worth coming to see for himself alone."

Jack laughed.

"That's rather stretching a point, I think. However, I am keeping an
open mind on the subject. The gentleman shall have 'a fair field and
no favour,' so far as my judgment of him goes. I won't let myself be
prejudiced in advance, either one way or the other."

During the following days they enriched their stores by the skin
of a fine jaguar, shot by Templemore, a great boa-constrictor--or
'camoodi'--twenty-four feet long, shot by Leonard, and many trophies of
lesser account. Then, a fresh lot of cassava having been procured for
the Indians, the journey was resumed.

In about three weeks from the time of their start, the party emerged
from the forest into a more open country, where rolling savannas
alternated with patches of woodland. Here the air was fresher and more
bracing, so that the depressing effect of the gloomy forest was soon
thrown off. They could shoot a little game, too, as they went along;
there were splendid views to be had from the tops of the ridges and low
hills they crossed. The ground steadily rose and became first hilly and
then mountainous, till, having crossed a broad, undulating plateau,
they once more entered a forest region, but this time of different
character. The trees were farther apart; there were hills, and rocky
ravines, and mountain torrents, steep mountains, and deep valleys. The
way became toilsome and difficult; game was scarce, or at least not
easy to obtain, owing to the nature of the ground; the cassava ran
short, and, once more, grumbling arose and trouble threatened.

At last, one evening, Matava, with perplexity in his face, led the two
young men aside to hold a consultation.

"These people," he said in his own language, "say they will not go any
farther!"

"How far do you reckon we are now from your own village?" asked Jack.

"About four days. If we could but persuade them to keep on for two days
more, we could fix a camp, and I could go on alone and bring back some
of my own people to take all the things on."

"Ah! a good idea, Matava. Well, let us see what persuasion will effect.
Any way, we had better get them to go as far as we can, and then encamp
at the first likely camping-ground."

In the end the Indians were prevailed upon, by promise of extra pay, to
go the additional two days' journey. Beyond that they would not budge.

"They think that mountain over there in the distance is Roraima,"
Matava explained; "and I cannot get them to believe it isn't. And they
are frightened, and won't go any nearer to it."

There was, therefore, nothing to be done but to adopt Matava's
suggestion. It was agreed that the two friends would stay in camp and
keep guard over their belongings, while he started next day for his
village, to bring help.

The spot was a convenient one in which to camp for a few days, with a
stream of water near. That evening, therefore, the Indians were paid,
this being done in silver, which they knew how to make use of. The next
morning, when Elwood and Templemore got out of their hammocks, they
found they were alone with Matava. All the others had disappeared.

"Ungrateful beggars!" said Jack. "They might, at least, have gone in a
respectable manner, and not like thieves slinking away. Let's hope they
are not thieves."

But they were not. An examination showed that nothing had been stolen.

"The poor fellows were only frightened," Leonard observed. "They are
honest enough."

Matava, meantime, was making ready to set off alone for carriers from
his own village. When he was ready, Templemore expressed a desire to
walk a little way on the road with him 'to take a peep over that little
ridge yonder'; which is a wish common to travellers in a country that
is new to them. But when they reached the ridge, there was only to
be seen another short expanse of undulating savanna, whereupon Jack
decided to return, leaving Matava to continue on his way.

Leonard, left to himself, finished the occupation he had in hand--the
cleaning of his double-barrel--and, having loaded it, strolled out of
the camp in another direction, to take a look round. He left the camp
to itself, not intending to go far, and expecting that his friend would
be back in a quarter of an hour or so. Not far away a 'bell-bird' was
ringing out its strange cry, that has been compared by travellers to
the sound of a convent bell. He had heard these birds often in the
forest since leaving the boats, but, in consequence of the density of
the woods, had never been able to get near one. Here, where the trees
were more open, there seemed to be a better chance, and he followed, as
he thought, the sound. But soon he came to the conclusion that he had
been in error; or the bird had flown across unseen; for the direction
of the sound seemed to have changed. He, therefore, turned off towards
where he fancied the bird now was; and this happened several times,
till at last he became confused and found he had fairly lost his way.
It is a peculiarity of the 'bell-bird,' as it is of many other birds
of the forest, that their notes are often misleading; it is one of
those cases of what has been termed by naturalists 'Ventriloquism in
Nature,' many examples of which the traveller in these wild regions
comes across. Leonard had arrived at the head of a small glen, and
found himself on a grassy bank beside a little stream, sheltered from
the glare of the sun by over-hanging branches. He laid down his gun
and went to take a drink of the inviting limpid water, and then sat
awhile on the bank looking down the picturesque ravine. It was very
quiet and peaceful all around, and he fell into one of his day-dreams.
At such times the minutes pass on unheeded; and he sat for a long while
oblivious of all that went on about him. But presently, behind him, a
silent, cunning enemy crept up unseen and unheard till near enough for
a spring; then there was a loud roar, and the next moment Leonard was
lying on the ground in the grasp of an enormous jaguar.

For a minute or two the beast stood over him growling, but not touching
him after the first blow that had knocked him down; while Leonard lay
dazed and helpless, with just enough consciousness to have a vague idea
that the best thing he could do, for the moment, was to lie perfectly
still. Then, with another roar, the animal seized him by the shoulder
and began to drag him down the slope towards some bushes. At that
moment Leonard, whose face was turned away from the brute, saw, like
one in a dream, the undergrowth through which he himself had come,
part asunder and three figures appear. Two of them were Templemore and
Matava, who stood rooted to the spot with horror-stricken faces; the
third was a tall stranger who towered above the other two, and who also
stood still for a second or two eyeing the scene, while the jaguar
growled threateningly.

Then the tall stranger advanced, and the animal released its hold and
was itself seized and pulled from over Leonard. In another moment
he felt himself lifted in two giant arms, and, looking up, saw the
stranger bending upon him a gaze in which there seemed a world of
tender anxiety and compassion. Everything appeared to swim around him,
and he knew that consciousness was leaving him; yet, for a space, the
fascination of that look seemed to hold him chained.

"You--must--be--Monella!" he said, softly. Then he fainted.




CHAPTER IV.

THE FIRST VIEW OF RORAIMA.


When Leonard came to himself sufficiently to see and understand what
was going on around him, for the moment he thought himself once more in
his days of childhood; for the first face he recognised was Carenna's,
his Indian nurse, who was bending over him in much the same way and
with the same expression as of yore. But, when he looked round, he
saw that he was in an Indian hut; and slowly the memory of what had
occurred came back to him.

Carenna, when she saw that he was himself again, gave a joyous cry;
then, conscious of her indiscretion, put her finger on her lips
to imply that he must remain quiet. He felt no inclination to do
otherwise, and soon fell into a refreshing sleep, which lasted for some
time.

When next he opened his eyes they rested on another pair, large and
steady, and that seemed to have a wondrous depth and meaning in them.
Then he saw that they belonged to the stranger who had pulled the
jaguar off, and was now sitting alongside the mattress on which he lay.

"Keep thee quiet, my son," said he in a low, musical voice. "All goes
well, and in two or three days you will be as strong as ever again."

There was something soothing in the mere glance of the eye, and in the
very tones of the man's voice; and Leonard, reassured by them, remained
passive for a while, till Carenna again appeared with a drink she had
prepared for him.

When, later, Jack Templemore came in, and Leonard was able to talk, he
found he had been ill for a week, and that he was then in the hut of
Carenna at the village of Daranato.

"I've had an awfully anxious time of it," Jack said; "but Monella seems
skilled in doctoring, and Carenna has been most devoted in her nursing
and attention and would brook no interference; so I've had to hang
around and pass the time as best I could."

When once Leonard had 'turned the corner,' as Jack called it, he
recovered rapidly, and was able, in a few days, as Monella had
predicted, to get about again. Nor was he any the worse for his mishap;
for the beast's teeth had just missed scrunching the bone.

When he wished to offer his thanks to Monella, the latter put him off
with a quiet smile.

"We think nothing of little incidents like that, my son, in a land such
as this. Your thanks are due to God who sent me to you at the moment;
not to me. Being there, I could not well have done otherwise than I
did."

It appeared that Monella had come out from the village a day or two
before to look out for them, and had fallen in with Matava. The Indian
had led him towards the camp, near which they had met Jack, who was
wandering about in search of Leonard. On learning that he was missing,
Monella had proceeded to the camp and thence--by some method known only
to himself--had tracked Leonard's footsteps--a thing that even Matava
confessed himself unable to do--and thus had come upon him just in time.

"When I saw how matters stood," said Jack, "my very heart seemed
to stand still. Neither I nor Matava dared to risk a shot, for the
brute stood up nearly facing us and holding you in his mouth. But
that wonder, Monella, quietly laid down his rifle and drew his knife,
keeping the beast fixed with his eye all the time; then he walked up to
it as coolly as though he were going to stroke a pet cat, put out his
hand and caught it with such a grip on the throat that it nearly choked
and had to let go of you at once. And presto! Before it could get its
breath, whizz went the knife into its heart! And he lifted it up and
threw it away from him, clear of you, as easily as one might a small
dog. Then he picked you up and carried you to the camp, as though you
were but a baby. The whole affair took only a few moments, and passed
almost like a dream. It's fortunate he happened to come out to meet us.
How could he possibly know we were coming?"

"I have always told you," said Leonard dreamily, "that there seems
to be a strange sympathy between my old Indian nurse and myself. She
tells me she 'felt' that I was in the neighbourhood, and sent word to
Monella, who at once went to her, and then came on to try to intercept
us. Only, you know, you never believed in those things. Yet here, you
see, Monella must have believed her, or he would not have had such
confidence in our coming as to wait about for us as he did."

"It's very strange," Jack admitted. "I confess I do not understand you
'dreamers.' I am out of the running there altogether.

"They say," he continued, "that from the top of yonder low mountain
before us you can see Roraima pretty plainly. But I had no heart to
go out to look for it while you were so ill, and, since you have been
getting better, I have preferred to stay and keep you company. But now,
I suppose, it will not be long before we set eyes, at last, upon the
wonderful mountain that is to be our 'El Dorado'!"

  [Illustration: "THERE BEFORE THEM ... THEY SAW THE MYSTERIOUS
  RORAIMA."
    [_Page 39._]

When Elwood heard this, he became anxious to get a sight of the object
of their journey; so, two days after, they started before dawn, with
Monella, to walk to the top of the low mountain Jack had pointed out.

They reached the summit of the ridge just when the sun was rising,
and there before them, like a veritable fairy-land in the sky, they
saw the mysterious Roraima, its pink-white and red cliffs illumined
by the morning sun, and floating in a great sea of white mist, above
which showed, here and there, the peaks of other lower mountains like
the islands they once were, but looking dark and heavy, in their
half-shadow, beside the glorious beauty of this queen of them all, that
reared herself far above everything around.

It is impossible to give an adequate idea of the impressive grandeur of
this mountain, which might be likened to a gigantic sphinx, serene and
impassive in its inaccessibility.

Or it might be likened to a colossal fortress, built by Titans to guard
the entrance to an enchanted land beyond; for the cliffs at its summit
appeared curiously turreted, while at the corners were great rounded
masses that might pass for towers and bastions.

In places, with the light-coloured cliffs were to be seen darker rocks,
black and dark green and brown, worked in, as it were, with strange
figures, as though inlaid by giant hands. And everywhere the sides were
perpendicular, smooth, and glassy-looking. Scarce a shrub or creeper
found a precarious hold there; but down from the height, at one spot,
fell a great mass of water--like a broad band of silver sparkling and
glistening in the sunlight--that came with one mad leap from the top
and disappeared in a cloud of spray and mist two thousand feet below.
Further along could be seen other narrower falls like silver threads.

There was no crest or peak as with most mountains. The top was a
table-land, beyond whose edge one could see nothing. This edge was
fringed with what looked like herbage, but, seen through a powerful
field-glass, proved to be great forest trees.

Then, as the sun rose higher and warmed the air, the mist cleared
somewhat around the lower part of the precipitous cliffs, so that
far, far down could now be seen the foliage that crowned the great
primæval forest--the 'forest of demons'--that girdled the cliffs' base.
Gradually the mist descended, and the full forest's height showed up
like a Titanic pedestal of green, itself floating in the haze that
still remained below.

By degrees the mist rolled down the mountain's side, for below this
extensive forest-girdle the actual base and lower slopes began slowly
to appear, with waterfalls, and cascades, and rushing torrents and
great rivers dashing and foaming in their rocky beds. Then other
intervening ridges and patches of forest and open savanna gradually
came into view, with the full forms of the surrounding smaller
mountains, the whole making up a panorama that was marvellous in its
extent and in the variety of its shapes and tints.

But scarcely had the sun revealed this wondrous sight to their
astonished eyes, when a cloud descended upon Roraima's height.

Almost imperceptibly it grew darker, then darker still and yet more
sombre, till the erst-while fairy fortress seemed to frown in gloomy
grandeur. Its salmon-tinted sides, but now so airy-looking in their
lightness, turned almost black, and seemed to glower upon the brilliant
landscape. The forest also lost its verdant colouring and looked dark
and forbidding enough to pass for an enchanted wood peopled by dragons,
demons, and hobgoblins to guard the grim castle in its centre.

Then the cloud descended lower still, and castle and haunted forest
passed out of sight, as swiftly and completely as though all had been a
magical illusion that had vanished at a touch of the magician's wand.

Leonard rubbed his eyes and felt half inclined to think he had been
dreaming. All this time not a word had been exchanged. Each had seemed
wrapped up in the weird attraction of the scene; and the new-comers,
even the practical Jack, had been astounded, almost overwhelmed, at the
sight of the stupendous cliffs and tower-like rocks of the mysterious
mountain, and its changes from gorgeous colouring and ethereal beauty
to black opacity and shapelessness.

Presently Monella turned and led the way back to the camp, the others
following, each absorbed in his own thoughts.

Templemore was more impressed by what he had just witnessed than he
would have cared, perhaps, to own. Never before had he seen such a
mountain, though he had crossed the Andes, and had looked upon the
loftiest and grandest on the American Continent. To him there was
something about Roraima that was wanting in all other mountains;
a suggestiveness of the unseen, of latent possibilities. He could
now understand why the Indians regarded it with fear and awe. It
was, indeed, impossible to look upon it without believing that some
wonderful story was hidden in its inaccessible bosom; some mysterious
secret that it kept jealously concealed from the rest of the world.
For, perhaps, the first time in his life, he was conscious of a feeling
that bordered on the superstitious. What if that which they had
witnessed were meant to shadow forth a warning; to be an omen! Did it
portend that, should they gain the summit of Roraima, they would find
there indeed a sort of earthly Paradise, but that it would turn--as
suddenly and completely as the fairy-like first view had changed that
morning--to the darksome solitude of a charnel house?

But Leonard, for his part, when he came to talk upon the matter, was
only more enthusiastic than before; and Monella smiled with indulgent
approbation when, with the ingenuous impulsiveness of youth, he
enlarged upon his delight and expectations.

When they returned to the Indian village preparations were begun for a
forward move to the place Monella had made his head-quarters; not far
from the commencement of the mysterious forest the Indians regarded
with such dread.

During the march thither they had many more glimpses of Roraima;
finally they emerged upon the last ridge that faced it, from which a
full view of its towering sides and of the forest at their base could
be obtained.

Between them was a deep ravine, along which flowed a narrow river
dotted with great boulders. Having crossed this with some difficulty
and ascended the other side, they reached an extensive undulating
plateau, an open savanna with here and there small clumps of trees.
They were now almost under the shadow of the great cliffs, and before
them, three or four miles away, was the beginning of the encircling
wood.

Rounding the end of a thicket distant a mile or so from this wood, they
came suddenly upon a large and substantially built log hut, and this,
Monella told them, was his temporary residence. Near it were several
smaller huts roughly but ingeniously formed of boughs and wood poles,
which the Indians who worked with him had constructed for themselves.

As they entered the larger dwelling Monella thus addressed them:

"This, my friends, is where we shall have to live until our work in
'Roraima Forest' shall be completed. Make yourselves as much at home
as the circumstances will permit; we are likely to occupy it for some
time."

And a fairly comfortable home it was; far more so indeed than the young
men had ventured to expect. There was rough furniture, there were lamps
for light at night, a number of books, and many other things that took
them altogether by surprise.

"It must have taken you a long time," said Jack Templemore, "to get all
these things transported here, and this place built and its furniture
made."

"It has taken me years!" was the reply.

The Indians who accompanied them, numbering about twenty, were all
of Matava's own tribe; altogether a different race from those who
had accompanied them nearly to Daranato and had been paid off and
gone home. When Monella had left his abode, temporarily, at Carenna's
request, to come to meet the two, all the Indians had gone with him,
objecting to be left so near to the 'demons' wood' without him. Now,
however, they quickly distributed themselves among the huts, one acting
as cook and servant in the house, and Matava attending to all other
matters as general overlooker.

So far little had been said between the young men and their strange
host as to the objects and details of their enterprise. The
circumstances of their introduction had been so unusual that the
discussion had been tacitly postponed until Leonard should have
recovered sufficiently to take part in it. And even then, when Jack had
broached the subject, Monella had remarked,

"You had better wait till you have been to my cabin near Roraima, when
I can better explain the nature of the undertaking. Then, if you do not
care to join me in it, or we seem unlikely to get on well together, we
will part friends and you will merely have had an interesting bit of
travelling." So all farther explanation had been adjourned.

"I call this more than a 'cabin,'" said Leonard, when they had had time
to make a sort of tour of inspection. "I think we ought to give it a
better name. Suppose we call it 'Monella Lodge.'" And 'Monella Lodge'
it was henceforth called.




CHAPTER V.

IN THE 'DEMONS' WOOD.'


The following day, Monella led the two friends to the road he had begun
to cut into Roraima Forest; but first he showed them two llamas that
were kept in a rough corral near his dwelling.

"I brought them all the way from the other side of the continent," he
said. "You know that there they are the only beasts of burden, and in
this country there are none. They will be useful to us later."

As to the so-called 'road,' it was really but a pathway; and, in
places, almost a kind of tunnel. The great trees of this primæval
forest were so high and dense that but little daylight penetrated to
the ground beneath; and on all sides the undergrowth was so thick and
tangled that almost every foot had to be cut out with the axe. Here and
there one could see for a few yards between the giant trunks, and at
these spots the path had been made wider. One curious thing Jack noted:
the path did not start from that part of the wood opposite to 'Monella
Lodge'; nor even from the margin of the wood itself.

Asked why this was, Monella thus made answer: "If in our absence others
should come here, they might hunt up and down for the path a long time
before they hit upon it--and very likely never find it. On this stony
ground the tracks we leave are very slight and difficult to trace."

"But," said Jack, "your Indians know the way."

Monella smiled.

"Not one of them would ever show another man the way," he replied, "let
him offer what he might."

"But why all these precautions?"

"Later you will understand."

But, when Jack came to look round, his heart sank within him.

"I should not care to have a few miles of railway to cut through wood
like this," he said. "It's the worst I ever saw. I do not wonder
you have found it more than you could manage--only yourself and
these Indians--and it's a wonder you ever got them to join at all,
considering all the circumstances."

"Yes; that's where it is," Monella answered. "Many men would have
despaired, I think. We have had trouble, too. Two Indians met with
accidents and were badly hurt; though now they are recovering. Then,
some of the small streams that issue from the mountain became suddenly
swollen once or twice, and washed away the rough bridges we had made
across them; and we have met with many unexpected obstacles, such as
great masses of rock, or a fallen tree, some giant of the forest that
was so big it was easier to go round it than to cut through it."

That evening, Monella explained his project, and showed the young men
the plans and diagrams Dr. Lorien had spoken of, and then went on to
say,

"If you decide to join me, you ought to know something of the language
in which these old documents are written. I both read and write it, and
I speak it too. You will find it interesting to decipher them, and an
occupation for the evenings."

Jack was not enthusiastic at this suggestion; but Leonard cordially
embraced it.

"To learn the language of an unknown nation that has passed away will
be curious and _very_ interesting," he declared, "and will, as you say,
help to pass the time. You may as well learn it too, Jack. You speak
the Indian--why not learn this? Then we can talk together in a tongue
that no one but ourselves and our friend here can understand."

"And where did these ancient people 'hang out'?" asked Jack
irreverently.

"Have you heard of the lake of Titicaca and the ancient ruins of
the great city of Tiahuanaco; a city on this continent believed by
archæologists to be at least as old as Thebes and the Pyramids?"
Monella asked.

"_I_ have," Leonard answered, "though I know very little about them.
But I believe I was in that country when very young, and had a curious
escape from death there."

Monella turned his gaze quickly upon the young man.

"Tell me about it. What do you remember?" he asked.

"Oh, I do not remember anything; I was too young. But I have been
_told_ how that my father went somewhere in that district on a
prospecting expedition, and, not liking to be separated from my mother,
took her with him, and my nurse, Carenna, and myself. Whilst there they
came across a small settlement of white people, as I understand, and
remained with them some time. There was amongst these people a child of
my own age, and so exactly like me, that my nurse grew almost as fond
of it as she was of me, and used to like to take the two out together.
One day, it seems, we both went to sleep on the grass, and she left us
for a few minutes to gather fruit. When she returned a poisonous snake
crawled hissing away, and she found the other poor little child had
been bitten and was dead.

"That's all I know about it. Who the people were, and where the place
was, I cannot say. I have always understood, however, that it was
somewhere in the direction of Lake Titicaca. But Carenna could tell you
more."

"And what about this ancient people of yours?" Templemore asked of
Monella, who still gazed thoughtfully and inquiringly at Leonard.
Templemore had heard of Elwood's early adventure many times before.

"High up on the eastern slopes of the great Andes is an extensive
plain, as large as the whole of British Guiana," the old man replied.
"It is twelve thousand feet above the level of the sea, and there, at
that great height, is also the largest lake of South America, Lake
Titicaca, over three thousand square miles in extent, on the shores of
which was once a mighty city called Tiahuanaco. It is now in ruins;
yet, even amongst its ruins, it boasts of some of the oldest and most
wonderful monuments in the world. Two thousand feet above this again,
are another large plain and another lake, little known to the outside
world, being, indeed, almost inaccessible. It was there my people
dwelt, and tradition asserts that they retired thither when driven
out of Tiahuanaco by some invasion of hordes from other parts of the
continent."

"Is it a very old language, do you suppose?" Jack asked.

"Undoubtedly one of the oldest in the world; and yet not difficult to
acquire by those who know the language of Matava and his tribe--as you
do. It has some affinity to it."

As regards the tongue spoken by the Indians, Leonard had learnt it from
Carenna in his childhood; and Templemore had picked up a good deal from
the same source, as well as on his hunting expeditions with Leonard and
Matava.

When it came to discussing terms, Monella declared that he had none to
make, except that on no consideration whatever should any other white
man be invited or allowed to join them. As to the rest, he simply
suggested that any wealth they might acquire by their enterprise should
be shared equally between them.

"Suppose one of us were to die," observed Jack. "How then? Might not
the survivors choose some one else to join them? Though," he added
thoughtfully, "if it were _you_, we should not be likely to go on."

"_I_ shall not die, my friend, until my task be finished," replied
Monella with conviction.

"You cannot say," was Jack's rejoinder.

"No, I do not say I _know_, yet I can say I _feel_ it. No man dieth
till he hath fulfilled the work in life allotted to him by God,"
Monella finished solemnly.

The others already knew him, by this time, as a man with deep-seated
religious convictions; though he made no parade of his beliefs. He
seemed to have a simple, steady faith in an overruling Providence, and
showed it, unostentatiously, in many ways, both in his actions, and in
the advice he gave, on occasion, to the young men.

In the result, the bargain--if it can be so termed--was concluded.
Elwood and Templemore formally enrolled themselves under Monella's
leadership, and henceforth performed the duties he assigned to them;
amongst other things assisting almost daily in the formation of the
path that was to take them through the forest. When not so engaged,
they would go out with some of the Indians on hunting or fishing
excursions in search of food.

Monella had with him, amongst other things, a beautifully finished
theodolite of wonderful accuracy and delicacy; with this he settled
the direction of the road from day to day. Often, obstacles were
encountered that made it impossible to go straight; these had to be
worked round and the proper direction picked up again by means of
Monella's calculations.

Another circumstance worthy of note and that caused the two young men
at first some surprise, was the fact that Monella had with him some
mirrors specially prepared and fixed in strong cases for carrying
about in rough travel, and intended for heliographic signalling. They
frequently took these out and practised with them by sending messages
to one another from the ridges of hills far apart. Monella tried also
to instruct Matava and some of the Indians in the work, but without
success. They were indeed afraid of the glasses, and looked upon it all
as some kind of magic.

"Wouldn't it be simpler to go up the bed of this stream that you
seem to have been following more or less all the time, even if it be
longer?" observed Jack one day.

Monella shook his head.

"No use, my friend. It divides into so many branches; and then again,
in case of a rise of its waters, we should have all our road submerged
at once."

On Sundays they always rested. This, it appeared, had been Monella's
custom all along.

In his conversations in the evenings and during their Sunday strolls,
he would instruct and amuse his hearers with his reminiscences and
adventures in all parts of the world, or with his intimate knowledge
of the wild life around them. From his account, he had undergone, at
times, terrible and extraordinary hardships and privations on the
plains and in the forests of India and Africa; of Australia; the
Steppes of Tartary; the Highlands of Thibet; the interior of China and
Japan; the wilds of Siberia; of Canada; the prairies of North America,
and the pampas, plains, and rugged mountains of South America--all,
as Dr. Lorien had said, seemed to be alike known to him. Nor was he
less familiar with the countries and cities of Europe; yet he spoke of
his travels and experiences in a simple manner that had in it nothing
of boastfulness or ostentation, but as though his sole object were to
amuse and entertain his two young friends.

As they penetrated farther into the forest, their work became harder
and the progress slower. This latter was unavoidable, since each day
they had to walk farther and farther to and fro. Moreover, the Indians,
who had displayed greater courage--so Monella had said--now that they
had two more white men with them, once more began to show signs of
nervous apprehension and fear.

This was doubtless due to the great difference in many ways--some
definite enough, others indefinable and vague--between this forest and
those generally to be found in the tropical regions of South America.
Not only were the trees still more gigantic--making it gloomier--and
the undergrowths more dense and tangled, but the birds and animals,
judging from their cries, were unfamiliar to them. Many of the sounds
usual to forest life in British Guiana were absent; the constant note
of the 'bell-bird' was not heard, nor was even the startling roar of
the howling monkeys. Instead were heard other sounds and noises of
an entirely novel and peculiar kind, unknown even to the Indians who
had been used to forest travelling all their lives; sounds that even
Monella either could not explain--or hesitated to. One of these was a
horrid combination of hiss and snort and whistle, loud and prolonged
like the stertorous breathings of some monstrous creature. Some of the
Indians declared that this was the sound traditionally said to proceed
from the great 'camoodi,' the monstrous serpent that is supposed to
guard the way to Roraima mountain; while others inclined to the
opinion that it was made by the equally dreaded 'didi,' the gigantic
'wild man of the woods,' that also had, as they averred, its special
haunts in this particular forest. At times, a startling, long-drawn
cry would echo through the wood, so human in its tones as sometimes
to cause them to rush in the direction it seemed to come from, in the
belief that it was a cry for help from one of the party who was in
danger. This strange, harrowing cry, the Indians called 'The cry of a
Lost Soul'[6]; and they were always seized with panic when it was heard.

      [6] This strange cry is often heard in the depths of the forests
      in this region, and has never been accounted for, the only
      explanation given by the Indians being the one stated above,
      viz., that it is 'the cry of a Lost Soul.' It is alluded to by
      the American poet, Whittier, in the following lines:--

         "In that black forest where, when day is done,

                 *       *       *       *       *

          Darkly from sunset to the rising sun,
          A cry as of the pained heart of the wood,
          The long despairing moan of solitude
          And darkness and the absence of all good,
          Startles the traveller with a sound so drear,
          So full of hopeless agony and fear,
          His heart stands still, and listens with his ear.
          --The guide, as if he heard a death-bell toll,
          Crosses himself, and whispers, 'A Lost Soul!'"

There were other cries and sounds equally mysterious and perplexing;
and, so the Indians began to declare, strange sights too. Of these they
could give no clear account, but they maintained that, in the shadows
in the darker places, or just before nightfall, while returning from
their work, they now and then caught passing glimpses of vague shapes
that seemed to peer at them and then disappear within the gloomy
forest depths. And even Elwood and Templemore were conscious of the
occasional presence of these silent unfamiliar shapes, and sometimes
fired at them, though without result. These facts they made no attempt
to conceal from one another, though, in their intercourse with the
Indians, they put a bold face on matters, and affected to disbelieve
the stories told them.

Monella alone was--or appeared to be--entirely undisturbed by all these
things. If conscious of them, he gave no sign of it, but went about
whatever he had to do as though danger were to him an unknown quantity.

There was, however, one unpleasant fact that could not be ignored, and
that was the unusual number of 'bush-masters' of large size in the
wood. This is a poisonous snake, very gaudily coloured, whose bite is
certain death. It does not--like most serpents--try to get out of the
way of human beings, but, instead, rushes to attack them with great
swiftness and ferocity. It is the only _aggressive_ venomous snake of
the American continent. It usually attains a length of five or six
feet; but, in this forest, the explorers killed many of eight or nine
feet, and two--that came on to the attack together--were nearly eleven
feet long, with fangs as large as a parrot's claw. In consequence of
the frequency of the attacks of these reptiles, so much dreaded by the
Indians, and indeed by all travellers, one or two of a working party,
armed with shot guns, had to be told off to keep watch; rifles being of
no use for the purpose.

Templemore, as it happened, had had a bad fright when a child from an
adventure with a snake; and this--as is frequently the case--had left
in his mind, all the rest of his life, a great horror of serpents. He
found, therefore, the presence of these 'lords of the woods,' as their
Indian name implies, a source of ever-present abhorrence.

Besides the 'bush-masters,' there were the 'labarri'--also a large
venomous snake, but not aggressive like the other--and rattlesnakes.
There were also, no doubt, boa-constrictors, or 'camoodis,' of the
ordinary kind; but, thus far, only one had been seen, and that, though
large, was nothing out of the way as regards size for that country.

Nor were serpents their only visible enemies; there were others of a
kind new to the two young men. One day, while with the working party at
the farthest part of the track, they heard the whole forest suddenly
resound with a perfect babel of discordant noises. There were shrill
cries and squeals, hoarse roars and growls, then a kind of trumpeting.
The Indians retreated, throwing down their axes to pick up their
rifles. As they hastily retired, four large animals sprang into their
path, one after the other, with loud roars and growls. But Monella,
who was behind Elwood, stepped forward and rolled two over with his
repeating rifle, and Jack stopped another of the beasts with his. The
fourth, apparently not liking the way things were going, leaped into
the thicket and disappeared; though, judging from the sounds that came
from the direction it had taken, there were many more of its fellows
close at hand. Gradually their cries grew fainter, until they died away
in the distance.

Meanwhile, further shots had given the _coup de grâce_ to the three
that had been knocked over, and the victors went up to examine them.
They seemed to be a kind of panther or leopard of a light grey colour,
approaching white in places, with markings of a deeper colour.

Neither Templemore nor Elwood had ever previously seen any animal, or
the skin of one, at all like these. They were, moreover, of different
shape from either the jaguar or the tiger-cat; larger than the latter,
and more thick-set than the former.

"These must be the 'white jaguars' that the Indians say help to guard
Roraima," Jack observed, looking in perplexity at the strange creatures.

"Yes," said Matava, who had now come up, "and they are 'Warracaba
tigers.'"[7]

      [7] A vivid account of an adventure with these formidable animals
      will be found in Mr. Barrington Brown's 'Canoe and Camp Life
      in British Guiana,' page 71. Very little is known about them,
      but they are believed to have their haunts in the unexplored
      mountain districts, from which they occasionally descend into
      other parts. Mr. Brown states that the Indians fear them above
      everything; and, while comparatively brave as regards jaguars and
      tiger-cats of all kinds, give way to utter panic at the mere idea
      that 'Warracaba tigers' are in their neighbourhood. It is said
      that nothing stops or frightens them except a broad stream of
      water--not even fire.

"What on earth are they?" asked Leonard.

"Warracaba tiger," Monella said, "is the name given to a species of
small 'tiger' (in America all such animals are called 'tigers') that
hunts in packs, and is reputed to be unusually ferocious. They have a
peculiar trumpeting cry, not unlike the sound made by the Warracaba
bird--the 'trumpet-bird'--hence their name."

"They look to me more like light-coloured pumas," Jack remarked.

"No; pumas are not marked like that, and do not make the sounds we
heard. Besides, you need never fear a puma, and should never shoot at
one, unless it is attacking your domestic animals."

Both Templemore and Elwood looked up in surprise.

"I always thought," the latter said, "that pumas were such bloodthirsty
animals."

"So they are, to other animals--even the jaguar they attack and kill.
But men they never touch, if let alone. I do not believe there is a
single authenticated instance of a puma's hurting any human being, man,
woman or child. In the Andes and Brazil--where I have lived long enough
to know--the Gauchos call the puma 'Amigo del cristiano'--'the friend
of man'--and they think it an evil thing to kill one."[8]

      [8] A very interesting account of the South American puma will
      be found in 'The Naturalist in La Plata,' by Mr. W. H. Hudson.
      He states that the puma has a strange natural liking for, or
      sympathy with, man; that, though ferocious and bloodthirsty in
      the extreme as regards other animals, yet it never attacks man,
      woman, or child, awake or asleep. He quotes many authorities, and
      gives numerous instances, of a very remarkable character, from
      the accounts of hunters and others whom he has himself seen and
      questioned.

A few days after, they were attacked again by these furious creatures,
and this time did not come off so well, for two of the Indians were
badly mauled. But for Monella's cool bravery, indeed, matters would
have been much worse; and Templemore had a narrow escape. Then, a day
or two later, one of the Indians was stung by a scorpion; and Jack came
near being bitten by a rattlesnake--would have been but for Monella,
who, just in time, boldly seized the reptile by the tail, and, swinging
it two or three times round his head, dashed its brains out against a
piece of rock.

Indeed, upon all occasions where there was any kind of danger,
Monella's ready, quiet courage was always displayed in a manner that
won both the admiration of his white colleagues and the devotion of his
Indian followers. Moreover, as Dr. Lorien had stated, and as Leonard
had found by actual experience, he was skilled in medicine and surgery.
To wounds he applied the leaves of some plant, of which he had a store
with him in a dried state, the curative effects of which were reputed
among the Indians to be almost marvellous.

But even these incidents were surpassed by a startling experience
they had a short time afterwards. On going to their working ground
one morning, two or three Indians in advance of the remainder of the
party saw, lying across the path, what they took to be the trunk
of a tree that had fallen during the night; and they sat upon it,
indolently, to wait for the others to come up. Suddenly, one of them
sprang up, exclaiming, "It's alive! I felt it move! It is breathing!"
They all jumped up, in alarm, when the great snake--for such it proved
to be--glided off into the wood. Most likely the others would have
ridiculed their story, but that Templemore happened to come up in time
to witness what occurred. And through the underwood, on both sides of
the path, was plainly to be seen a sort of small tunnel that marked the
place where the serpent had been lying asleep.

Matava and his fellows, of course, insisted that this was the great
'camoodi,' that Indian tradition had long declared existed in this
forest--set there specially, by the demons of the mountain, to guard it
from intrusion.

These constant dangers and adventures made the task of keeping the
Indians from deserting doubly difficult, and rendered the work both
harassing and tedious to the others. Only Monella showed no weariness,
no sign of the strain it all involved; so far from that, these troubles
seemed only to increase his vigilance, his power of endurance, and his
determination.

And all the time they were cutting their way through vegetation that
would have astonished and delighted the heart of a botanical collector
such as Dr. Lorien. Not only within the wood, but in the whole district
round, unknown and wondrous flowers and plants abounded. But the
explorers had neither time nor inclination to take that interest in
them they merited, and would, at any other time, have undoubtedly
excited.[9]

      [9] See extract given in the preface (page viii.) from Richard
      Schomburgk's book 'Reissen in Britisch Guiana.'




CHAPTER VI.

THE MYSTERIOUS CAVERN.


When the time drew near for the adventurers, if Monella's calculations
proved correct, to reach the base of the towering rock towards which
they were making their way with so much labour, a suppressed excitement
became apparent throughout nearly the whole party. It was clearly
visible in the Indians and in Elwood; and Templemore, even, showed
signs of anxiety. Monella alone was imperturbable as ever, and, if
any unusual feeling arose in his mind, there was no trace of it to be
seen in his placid manner. Perhaps a close observer might have seen,
at times, a little more fire in the gaze of his keen eyes; but it was
scarcely noticeable to those around him.

Elwood did not attempt to hide the state of expectancy into which he
had gradually worked himself; but while he, on the one hand, grew
more excited, Jack Templemore, on the other, became steadily more
pessimistic and moody. Since the adventure of the great 'camoodi' he
seemed nervous and depressed, and he no longer troubled himself to
conceal the discontent that now possessed him. The continued sojourn
in that terrible forest was becoming too much for his peculiar
temperament. Its gloom oppressed him more and more each day; and he
had become silent and unsociable, often sitting for long intervals
stolidly smoking and, if addressed, replying only in monosyllables.
They had now been for some weeks in the wood, camping in it every
night, and going back to 'Monella Lodge' only for the Sundays. To this
rule Monella rigidly adhered; but, since it took the greater part of
a day to reach the edge of the forest from the point they had now
attained, but little work was done at the path-making on Saturdays,
Sundays, or Mondays. Hence their progress had become slower, and
Templemore's discontent and impatience increased in proportion.

One morning, after breakfast, Jack was sitting on a log moodily
smoking, while Elwood was busying himself clearing up after the
meal recently finished. Monella and all the Indians had gone to the
path-end, and were out of sight; but the strokes of their axes, and
their calls one to another, could be heard distinctly, now and again,
echoing through the almost silent wood. Very little else broke the
stillness, but once or twice they had heard that weird sound, half
hiss, half whistle, that the Indians attributed to the monstrous
serpent. Presently, Jack took his pipe from his mouth and addressed
Elwood:--

"You heard what Monella said last night, that he hoped to-day or
to-morrow would see the end of this work. Supposing, as I expect, that
we find that we merely run against inaccessible cliff, I want to know
what you intend to do. To attempt to work either to right or to left,
along the foot of the rock, in the hope of finding an opening would
be, I feel convinced, a mere wild-goose chase, and would lead us only
farther into this hateful forest, and uselessly prolong our stay in it.
Now, Leonard, is it agreed that the thing is to end when we get to the
cliff? I've asked you again and again as to this, but you always put me
off."

"I put it off--till the time comes for deciding about it; that's
all, you old grumbler. What is the use of talking before we see how
Monella's calculations come out?"

"If I grumble, as you call it, it is because I am anxious for others.
I gave a solemn promise before I left my poor old mother that I would
not rush into any obvious and unnecessary danger; any danger, that is,
beyond the ordinary risks of travel in a country like Guiana. Now----"

"Well, what dangers have we courted that are beyond the 'ordinary risks
of travel,' as you call them?" Elwood demanded cheerfully. "We have
come safely through forests and plains thus far, and now we are in
another forest----"

"Yes, but what a forest! I have been, as you know, pioneering in the
furthermost recesses of Brazil and Peru; I know a little--just a
_little_--you will allow, of wild life; but never have I seen the like
of this wood! No wonder the Indians shun and fear it; indeed, it is a
marvel to me how Monella ever induced them to enter upon this work,
and it is still more wonderful how he has managed to keep them from
deserting him. Heaven knows what we have experienced of the place is
enough to try the courage of the best--the most ferocious 'tigers,' the
biggest serpents of one sort ever dreamed of, and the more deadly and
more fiercely aggressive venomous ones; strange creatures that one can
only catch glimpses of and can never see; sounds so weird and unnatural
that even the Indians can offer no explanation. That great serpent,
alone, fills me with a continual cold horror. We never know where it
may be lurking; it may make a rush at one of us at any moment, and what
chance would one have with such a beast? What consolation, to think it
would probably get a bullet through its head from one of us, if, while
that was being done, it crushed another to a jelly?"

"Your old horror and dislike of serpents make you nervous, old boy.
I wish you could get over it. In all else, you know, you are as bold
as--as--well, as Monella himself; and that is saying a lot, isn't it?
You must admit that, if our enterprise has its dangers, we have a
leader who knows what he is doing."

"A splendid fellow! but--a dreamer--or--a madman!"

"A madman! He has method in his madness then! I admire him more and
more every day. He is a man to lead an army; to inspire the weakest;
to put courage into the most timid. I do not wonder the Indians are
so devoted to him. _I_ would follow him anywhere, do anything he told
me! His very glance seems to thrill you through with a courage that
makes you ready to dare everything! He is a born leader of men! He
carries out, in every action, in his manner, his air, his principles,
his extraordinary cool courage, and his gentle, simple courtesy, all
my ideas of a hero of romance of the olden time--the very _beau idéal_
of a great king and chivalrous knight. _I_ can see all this; his very
looks, his slightest motions are full of a strange dignity; never have
I seen one who so excited alike my admiration and my affection! Yet, I
do admit he is a mystery. One knows nothing----"

"Exactly," Jack burst in, interrupting at last the speech of the
enthusiastic Leonard. "It is true, what you say, in a measure. He seems
to have in him the making of such a man as you, I can see, have in your
mind--a hero, a leader of men. Yet here is he, an unknown wanderer
on the face of the earth, giving up the last years of his life to a
fatuous chase after El Dorado, with a few Indians and a couple of
credulous young idiots joining in his mad quest. I like him; I admire
him; I believe in his sincerity. But I say he is mad all the same, a
dreamer; and for the matter of that, so are you. You suit each other,
you two. Two dreamers together!" And Templemore got up and began pacing
up and down, restless in body and disturbed in mind.

Leonard watched him with a half smile; but Templemore looked serious
and anxious.

"We are surrounded by hidden enemies--many of them deadly creatures,"
he went on gloomily. "Already three of us have fallen victims, and
we know not who may be the next. Even the most constant and watchful
vigilance does not avail in a place like this; and the never-ceasing
worry of it is becoming more than I can stand. One wants eyes like a
hawk's and ears like an Indian's. One cannot feel safe for a single
minute; you want eyes at the back of your head----"

Leonard went up and put his hand on the other's arm.

"All because you are so anxious about _me_ and others, dear old boy,"
he said. "If you really thought of yourself alone you would never
trouble; but you make a great affectation of nervous apprehension for
yourself, while all the time you are thinking only of me."

Templemore shook his head.

"I don't know how it is," he returned, "but the thought of that great
snake _haunts_ me. I feel as if some terrible trouble were in store
for us through it. A kind of presentiment; a feeling I have never had
before----"

Elwood burst out laughing.

"A presentiment! Great Scott! _You_ confessing to a presentiment! You
who always deride _my_ presentiments, and dreams, and omens! Well, this
is too good, upon my word! Who is the dreamer _now_, I should like to
know?"

Just then they heard a call, and, looking along the path, saw Monella
at some distance beckoning to them.

"Bring a lantern," they heard him say, "and come with me, both of you."

"A lantern!" exclaimed Jack. He took one up and examined it to see that
there was plenty of oil. "What on earth can he want with a lantern? Is
he going to look for the sun in this land of shadow?"

When they came up to Monella they looked at him inquiringly, but no
sign was to be had from a study of his impassive face. Yet there
seemed, Jack thought, a softer gleam in his eyes when he met his gaze.

"I think our work is at an end," he said to the young men; "and,"
addressing Jack more particularly, "your anxiety may now, let us hope,
be lightened."

Then he turned and walked on with a gesture for the two to follow. And
Templemore felt confused; for the words Monella had spoken came like
an answer to the thoughts that had been in his mind; so much so that
he could not help asking himself, had this strange being divined what
he and Elwood had been talking, and he (Jack) had been so seriously
thinking, of?

However, these speculations were soon driven away by surprise at the
change in the character of the wood. The trees grew less thickly, and
the ground became more stony, the undergrowth gradually thinner; more
daylight filtered down from above, and soon they found they could see
between the trunks of the trees for some distance ahead. And then, in
the front of them, it grew lighter and lighter, and shortly the welcome
sound of falling water struck upon their ears. Then they came upon a
stream--presumably the same that they had been, in a measure, following
through the wood--rushing and tumbling in a rocky bed--for they were
going up rising ground--and splashing and foaming in its leaps from
rock to rock. The trees became still sparser, and the light stronger,
till, finally, they emerged into an open space and saw, rising
straight up before them, the perpendicular flat rock that formed the
base of Roraima's lofty summit.

It was here fairly light; indeed, a single ray of sunlight played upon
the splashing water in the little stream, and the spray sparkled in the
gleam. But still very little sunlight ever entered the place. The great
wall of rock that reared itself in a plumb-line two thousand feet into
the sky, overshadowed it completely on the one side; and on the other
were the great trees of this primæval forest towering up three hundred
feet or more, and extending their branches above across almost to the
rock, though below, the nearest trunk was quite fifty yards away. They
stood, in fact, upon the edge of a semi-circular clearing that extended
for a distance of perhaps a hundred yards, its radius being about fifty
yards if taken from the centre of the exposed portion of the cliff. At
each end of this space the trees and undergrowth closed in again upon
the rock in an impenetrable tangled mass, denser, and darker even, than
that through which the explorers had been slowly cutting their way.

Some of the Indians were grouped round the stream, two or three
enjoying the luxury of wading in it, or sitting on the bank and
dangling their feet in the clear cool water. Matava and the others
were busy upon some kind of rough carpentering. Templemore and Elwood
saw that the stream issued from a hole in the rock near one end of the
clearing; and this was of itself a matter for surprise. They were,
however, still more astonished when Monella, with a strange smile,
pointed out another aperture in the rock near the centre of the open
portion of the cliff. It was about sixteen or eighteen feet from the
ground, and was not unlike a window or embrasure in a stone building of
considerable thickness. Within--at a distance of eighteen inches or
so--it seemed however to be closed by solid rock.

The two gazed in silence at this unexpected sight; Elwood showing in
his eager manner the hopes that it aroused, and Templemore pondering in
silent wonder as to what it all meant. That Monella's 'calculations'
had led them to a most unexpected result thus far--whether by accident
or otherwise--he could not but admit. Of the fact there was now no
doubt. But a clearing of this character, opposite to what looked like
an opening in the rock, or entrance to a cave, was a fact too startling
to be the outcome of a mere coincidence, or a lucky chance. He knew
that a party of explorers might spend years--centuries, indeed, if they
could live long enough--in a search for such a place in that forest
and never find it, unless guided by the most exact information. Then
the fact that the opening was so nearly in the centre of the clearing
had a significance of its own; the question whether it was actually
the entrance to a cave or merely a curious accidental hollow in the
rock was thus answered, as it were, in advance. Besides, just below
the 'embrasure' a small stream trickled out, and, falling down the
rock, found its way amongst the stones to the larger water-course
beyond. Here there seemed presumptive evidence that the space at the
back of the rock was hollow--was, in fact, a cave. But in that case
the entrance must have been purposely closed by human hands. If so, by
whom? and when? and why?

These thoughts revolved rapidly in Templemore's mind while he stood
looking at the rock. He glanced around at the giant trees, and thought
of the almost impenetrable character of the forest they had come
through, and he felt that, if the ideas that had come into his mind
were correct, it was impossible to suppose that such a cave could be
the retreat say, of any unknown Indians living at the present time.
Therefore, the puzzle seemed the greater. _Who_ could have been there
before them--and how long ago?

But Matava now approached the cliff bearing a sort of rough ladder
that he had constructed under Monella's directions; this he placed
against the rock just under the opening, planting the ends firmly in
the ground. He had cut down two young saplings and, partly by means of
notches, and partly by twisting some strong fibres to hold them, had
fastened cross-pieces at short intervals, and so fashioned the whole
into a very serviceable ladder.

Monella signed to him to hold it firmly, and proceeded to test its
strength. Then, satisfied as to this, he quietly mounted it till he
could insert his hand into the aperture. After a moment or two he
called to Elwood and Templemore to assist in steadying the ladder; and,
when they had come to the assistance of Matava and another Indian who
was with him, Monella leaned over into the opening and, exerting all
his great strength, pushed away the stone that was closing it, exposing
to view a cavern beyond. After a brief look inside, he asked for a
lighted lantern and a long stick, and, while these were being handed
up, the expectations and curiosity of his companions became excited
to a lively degree. The Indians, who had been amusing themselves in
the water, came crowding round, half pleased, half afraid at this
unexpected development of events.

"You're never going to venture into that place?" Templemore asked. "It
may be full of deadly serpents. For Heaven's sake do not be rash enough
to risk it. Send one of the Indians----"

Monella replied with a look--a look that Jack remembered for many a day
after. His eyes simply flashed; and then he said quickly,

"Did you ever know me bid another go where I would not venture myself?"

Then he took the lighted lantern, swung it into the cavern at the end
of the stick, and, having satisfied himself that the air within was
not foul, he threw the stick in first and followed, himself, into the
semi-darkness.

A minute after, his head and shoulders re-appeared, just when Jack was
half way up the ladder to follow him.

"Wait a few minutes before you come up," he asked him. "I just want to
give a glance round, and there is but one lantern. Or--well--suppose
you come up and wait inside. But tell the others to keep to the bottom
of the ladder, and be ready to hold it in case we should wish to beat a
hasty retreat."

This seemed prudent counsel, and was carried out. When Jack got off
the ladder into the opening, he was told to jump down inside; and he
found there a level rocky floor about three feet below the aperture,
which had thus a resemblance to a veritable window. By the dim light it
gave he could see that he was in a cavern of considerable height and
extent, and Monella, with his lantern, disappearing through an arched
opening at some distance that seemed to lead to another cave within. He
had brought with him his double-barrel, one barrel loaded with small
shot, the other with ball, and he gave a look at the revolver in his
belt while he stood waiting at the entrance and gazing curiously about
him. He saw that a small stream of water ran through one side of the
cave; there were, in fact, two streams, for one ran in a ledge at some
distance from the ground; but when it came to the opening they had
come through, it fell to the floor and joined the other stream, the
whole finding its way out through a fissure in the rock and running
down outside, as has been before described. Now the stone slab that
had closed the 'window,' as Jack called the opening, had rested on a
continuation of what may be termed the sill, and, on being pushed, had
rolled off. It was a thin slab, roughly circular in shape; not unlike
what one might suppose a millstone to be in the rough. Jack regarded it
with close attention, almost indeed with awe; it spoke so plainly of
human beings having inhabited the place, or, at least, of their having
fashioned this method of closing the entrance to the cave. How long ago
had they been there? And, when they went away, why had they closed the
entrance so carefully?

Monella seemed a long time away; so long that Jack at last began to
think of starting to look for him--they had already sent for another
lantern in case it should be required--when he heard his footsteps in
the distance, and shortly afterwards saw the gleam from his lantern.
When he came closer, Jack scanned his face keenly, but, as usual, read
nothing there.

"You can call Elwood," said Monella, "and I will take you to where
I have been. You need have no fear; the place is quite free from
reptiles."

When, however, Leonard was called, a difficulty arose; Matava and his
fellows objected very strongly to being left alone outside; but it
also appeared that they objected still more strongly to coming into
the cavern. On no consideration whatever would they enter 'the demons'
den,' as they had already named it. But, since they had to make a
choice, they elected, in the end, to remain outside and wait.

When Elwood was inside and had had a few moments in which to get
accustomed to the obscurity and peer wonderingly about him, Monella
pointed out how the opening had been closed.

"I want you to notice," he observed, "that this stone was _cemented_,
and this little stream of water that has accidentally found its way
round here, has, in the course of time, loosened the cement; else I
could not have pushed the stone away. We should have had to blast it."

"Yes," said Jack; "and it also shows that it was closed _from the
inside_. Whoever last closed it never went out again--at least not by
this entrance. Where then did they go to?"

"That's what we have to see about," returned Monella. "Now, follow me,
and I will show you something that will surprise you."




CHAPTER VII.

THE CANYON WITHIN THE MOUNTAIN.


Monella, with the lantern in his hand, led his two companions through
an arched opening into a second cavern which seemed to be larger and
loftier than the first; and this, in turn, opened into a third, at one
end of which they could see that daylight entered. Monella stopped here
and, lifting the light high in one hand, pointed with the other to
side-openings in the rock.

"They are side-galleries, so to speak," he said, "but do not appear to
be of any great extent. I have been to the end of two or three. They
all seem to be perfectly empty too; not so much as a trace of anything
did I see, save loose pieces of stone here and there, that had, no
doubt, fallen from the roof. Now we will go to the entrance on this
side." And he turned and walked on towards the place where they could
see the glimmering of daylight.

Quite suddenly they turned a corner and saw before them a high archway,
leading out into the open air; and, before the two young men had had
time to express surprise, they had stepped out of the gloomy cavern
into a valley, where they stood and stared in helpless astonishment
upon a scene that was as lovely and enchanting as it was utterly
unexpected.

They saw before them the bottom of a valley, or canyon, of about half
a mile in length, and nearly a quarter of a mile in width; its floor,
if one may use the expression, consisted chiefly of fine sand of a warm
tawny hue; its sides, of rocks of white or pinkish white fine-grained
sandstone, with here and there veins, two or three feet wide, of some
metallic-looking material that glistened in the sunlight like masses
of gold and silver. In other places were veins of jasper, porphyry,
or some analogous rock, that sparkled and flashed as though embedded
with diamonds; other parts again were dark-coloured, like black marble,
throwing up in strong relief the ferns and flowers that grew in front
of them.

At the further end of the valley a waterfall tumbled and foamed in
the rays of the sun which, being now almost overhead, threw its beams
along the whole length of the canyon. The stream that flowed below the
fall widened out into clear pools here and there, fringed by stretches
of velvety sward of a vivid green. The water of this stream was of a
wonderful turquoise-blue tint, different from anything, Templemore
thought, that he had ever seen before; and he and Elwood gazed with
admiration at its inviting pellucid pools. But most extraordinary of
all were the flowers that nearly everywhere were to be seen. In shape,
in brilliancy of colouring, and in many other respects, they differed
entirely from even the rare and wonderful orchids and other blossoms
they had come across in the vicinity of Roraima. Of trees there were
not many, though a few were dotted about here and there by the side of
the river; and, in places, graceful palms grew out of the rocky slopes
at the sides and leaned over, somewhat after the fashion of gigantic
ferns. Though the valley was so shut in, and the heat in the sun very
great, yet the amount of green vegetation on all sides, the blue
water, and the light-coloured, cool-looking rocks, made up a scene
that was gratefully refreshing after the gloom of the forest scenes to
which the explorers had been so long accustomed. Moreover, by stepping
back into the cool air of the cavern, they could look out upon it all
without experiencing the drawback of the intense heat.

Elwood was in ecstasies. The triumphant light in his eyes, when he
turned round and looked at his friend, was a thing to see.

"You confounded, wretched old grumbler," he exclaimed, "what have you
to say now? Is not _this_ worth coming for? Or is it that even _this_
will not suit you? Perhaps it is all too bright, the water too blue,
the flowers too highly coloured, or"--here a most delicious scent was
wafted across from some of the flowers--"they are perfumed too highly
to please you! You haven't found fault with anything yet, and we have
been here nearly five minutes!"

Jack laughed; and Leonard noticed that it was more like his old, easy,
good-natured laugh.

"I think you are too severe upon me, Leonard," he replied. "Don't you
think so, Monella?"

Monella, the while, had been standing gazing on the scene like one in a
dream. More than once he passed his hand across his eyes in a confused
way, as though to make sure he was awake. When thus addressed, however,
he seemed to rouse himself, and, without noticing the bantering
question that had been addressed to him, and, extending one hand slowly
towards the valley that lay before them, said,

"I praise Heaven that I have been led, after many days, to the land
that I have seen in my visions. _Now_ do I begin to understand why they
were sent. And you too, my son," he added, looking at Leonard, "you
have had your visions and your dreams. Tell me, does this not remind
you of them?"

  [Illustration: "A SCENE THAT WAS GRATEFULLY REFRESHING."
    [_Page 72._]

"Indeed it does," returned Leonard seriously. "Though, till you spoke
of it, I had not thought of it. I felt so glad to think we had been
successful so far, and that your expectations were being justified. It
is all very strange."

"I am out of all that," observed Jack, with a comical mixture of
offended dignity and good-natured condescension. "You dreamers of
dreams have the best of such beings as I am. _You_ are led on by
visions of what is in store for you, as it would seem, while _I_ have
to work in the dark, and follow others blindly, and----"

"And think of nothing but how best you can serve and protect your
friends," said Monella, looking at him with a kindly smile. "We are
not all alike, my friend. It is not given to all to 'dream dreams,'
any more than it is given to all to have true manly courage combined
with almost womanly affection for those they call their friends. We
three have little to boast of as between one another, I fancy. Would
it were so more often where three friends are found grouped together
or associated in any undertaking. But now to consider what is next
to be done. It seems to me we could not have a better place for our
head-quarters in our future explorations than this cavern. Here we
have all we want: shelter from rain, and sun, water--pretty well all
we could ask for. We must see about getting our things along here." He
paused for a moment and then continued, "On second thoughts I see no
reason why you should not remain here. There is no more baggage than
the Indians can carry amongst them, and that is all we have to trouble
about. I will go back, and you two stay here."

"That seems scarcely fair," Jack protested. "I have been lazy all the
morning. I propose I go and leave you here."

Monella shook his head.

"You cannot manage the Indians as I can," he answered. "Indeed, that is
one reason why I think you would do better to remain here. When they
find you do not return, and that they have to obey me or remain in the
forest alone, they are more likely to do what we require. But I will
ask you not to go far away, and not to fire off a gun or anything,
unless in case of actual danger and necessity."

"You do not believe that the place is inhabited?" Jack exclaimed in
surprise.

"Who can tell?" was the only reply, as Monella took up the lantern and
turned away.

Left to themselves, Jack pulled out his inevitable pipe, the while that
Elwood sought, and brought in, a couple of short logs from a fallen
tree to serve as seats; and the two then sat down in the shade of the
cavern-entrance.

Jack was very thoughtful; but his thoughtfulness now was of a different
kind from his late moody silence. He, indeed, was ruminating deeply
upon Monella, who was every day--every hour almost--becoming a greater
mystery to him. He had been particularly struck with his manner and
the expression of his face when they had stood together, looking out
upon that curious scene. In Monella's _words_ there had not been much
perhaps, but in other respects he had strangely impressed the usually
unimpressionable Templemore. There had been in his features a sort of
exaltation, a light and fire as of one actuated by a great and lofty
purpose, so entirely opposed to the idea that his end and aim were
connected with gold-seeking, that Jack Templemore confessed himself
more puzzled with him than he had ever been before. Too often, as he
reflected, when a man sets his mind, at the time of life Monella might
be supposed to have reached, upon gold-seeking, he is actuated by sheer
greed and covetousness. But by no single look or action whatever had
Monella ever conveyed a suggestion that the lust of gold was in his
breast. Yet, if that were not so, what was his object? Did he seek
fame--the fame of being a great discoverer? Scarcely. Again and again
he had declared, on the one hand, his contempt for and weariness of
the world in general, and, on the other, his fixed intention never to
return to civilised life. Jack began to suspect that all his talk about
the wealth to be gained from their enterprise had been chiefly designed
to secure their aid, and that for himself it had no weight--offered no
incentive. What, then, _was_ Monella's secret aim or object? What was
the hidden expectation or hope, or belief, or whatever it was, that
had led him into an undertaking that had appeared almost a chimera;
that had so taken possession of his mind as to have become almost a
religion with him; that had enabled him to support fatigue and physical
exertion, privation, hunger and thirst, as probably could few other
men on the face of the earth; and that had become such an article of
faith--had made him such a firm believer in his own destiny, that no
danger seemed to have any meaning for him? Neither storm nor flood,
lightning nor tempest, savage beasts nor deadly serpents--none of
the dangers or risks that the bravest men acknowledged, even if they
faced them, seemed to have existence so far as this strange man showed
any consciousness of them. Never had they known him to step aside
one foot, to pause or hesitate one moment, to avoid any of them. He
simply went his way in supreme contempt of them all; and, until quite
lately--till within the hour almost--Jack had attributed all this
either to madness, or to an inordinate thirst for riches for riches'
sake--which, as he reflected, would be, in itself, a sort of madness.
Now, however, his opinion was altering. The liking he had all along
felt was changing to surprised admiration. He remembered the calm,
unwavering confidence with which Monella had led them through all
their seemingly interminable difficulties and discouragements to their
present success--for success he felt it was, in one sense, if not in
another. In the strange flowers and plants before them, alone, there
were fame and fortune, and what might there not be yet beyond, now that
they had in very truth penetrated into that mysterious mountain that
had so long defied and baffled all would-be explorers? Monella, he
still felt, might be a bit mad--a dreamer or a mystic--but, evidently,
he was a man of great and strange resources. Few engineers, as Jack
himself knew, could have led them thus straight to their goal from
the data he had had to work upon. Yet he showed now neither elation
nor surprise, and in particular, as Jack confessed to himself rather
shamefacedly, no disposition to remind him of his many exhibitions
of contemptuous unbelief. With these thoughts in his mind, and the
remembrance of Monella's unvarying kindness of manner--to say nothing
of the way he had exposed himself to danger on his behalf--Templemore
began to understand better than he ever had before the affection that
the warm-hearted Leonard entertained for their strange friend, and
he became conscious that a similar feeling was fast rooting itself
in his own heart. In fact Monella was now, at last, exercising over
the practical-minded Templemore that mysterious fascination and magic
charm that had made the Indians his devoted slaves, and Leonard his
unquestioning admirer and disciple.

Presently, Leonard, who had fallen into one of his daydreams, woke up
with a slight start and exclaimed,

"What a paradise!"

Jack smiled, and said, "I wonder whether it is a paradise without a
serpent, as it is without an Eve? But your dreams, Leonard, if I
remember, were mixed up with a comely damsel; and there is none here. I
fear we shall have to regard her as the part that goes by contraries,
as they say."

Leonard looked hard at him, and there was evident disappointment in his
glance and tone when he asked,

"Do you then think this place is uninhabited?"

"I do," was the reply. "And I will tell you why. That stone that closed
the entrance from the forest was placed there by some one, no doubt,
and by some one inside. Yes; but how long ago? A very long time!
Hundreds of years, I should say. It has taken quite that time for that
stream of water to hollow out the little channel in the rocky side of
the cave and play upon the cement until it has become loosened. The
wood outside tells the same tale. It must be hundreds of years since
any human beings made their way to and fro through the wood, to or
from this place. _Once_ there were many people here; and they were
not ordinary people either, I can tell you. Not Indians, I mean, for
instance. They were clever workers in stone. That 'window,' as I call
it, through which we came in, is artificial."

Elwood gave an exclamation of surprise.

"Yes; I noticed it, though you did not. I have little doubt that
Monella noticed it too. The cavern was formerly all open, or, at
least, it had a large opening, and I am almost certain its floor was
originally level with the ground outside. If so, the present floor
is artificial, and there are probably vaults beneath. Outside, the
stonework is so artfully done that you see no trace of it; it appears
to be all solid rock; but inside I saw distinctly traces of the joints.
Then, look at these archways, at the one we are now sitting under! They
have been worked upon too--to enlarge them, probably; to give more
head-room when the floor was made higher. See! here are marks of the
chisel!" And Templemore got up and pointed to many places where the
marks left by the tool were clearly to be seen.

"Well," said Elwood, "I suppose we shall solve the problem and set all
doubts at rest before many days are over. For my part I am in a curious
state of mind about it--half impatient, half the reverse. If it is to
turn out as you say, I am in no hurry to terminate the uncertainty.
This strange spot, the fact that we are really, at last, inside the
wonderful mountain--these things open such a vista of marvellous
possibilities that I--it seems to me--I would rather, you know----"

"Oh, yes, I know, you old dreamer," Jack exclaimed, laughing. "You
would rather wait and have time to dream on for a while than have your
dreams rudely dispelled by hard facts. Now suppose we go and take a
look round in the shade over there. We need not go out of sight of this
entrance; so that Monella will find us immediately he returns."

The sun had now moved so far over that one side of the valley was
lying in shadow, and they strolled out to observe more closely the new
flowers and plants they had thus far seen only from a distance.




CHAPTER VIII.

ALONE ON RORAIMA'S SUMMIT.


When Monella returned about two hours later, the two young men had much
to tell him of the wonderful flowers and plants they had found, of
strange fish in the water, and curious _perfumed_ butterflies that they
had mistaken for flowers.

There were many of these extraordinary insects flying about. In
colouring and shape they resembled some of the flowers; when resting
upon a spray or twig they looked exactly like blossoms, and upon
nearing them, one became conscious of a most exquisite scent. But just
when one leaned a little nearer to smell the supposed flower, it would
flutter quickly away, and insect and perfume disappeared altogether.
Many of the flowers that were scattered about the rocks were shaped
like exquisitely moulded wax bells of all sorts and kinds of colours
and patterns, white, red, yellow, blue, etc., striped, spotted,
speckled. So distinct were they from anything the explorers had before
seen, that they had picked some and brought them into the cavern to
show Monella; but he could not give them a name.

The stream from the waterfall, they found, disappeared into the ground
just before it reached the cavern. No doubt this was the stream they
had seen issuing from the rock upon the other side.

At the further end the valley began to rise, following the stream,
which came down in a series of small falls or cataracts. About this
part they had found some other caves; but had not entered them.

"And most remarkable of all," said Templemore, "we have not seen a
single snake, lizard, or reptile of any sort or kind. Yet this is just
the sort of place one would have expected to be full of them. Nor have
we seen either animals or birds."

Monella told them the Indians still refused to enter the cave. They
all three, therefore, went to the 'window,' and assisted to get their
camp equipage inside, the Indians bringing the things to the top of
the ladder and handing them through the opening. They preferred,
themselves, to camp outside, and had already made a fire to cook some
monkeys they had killed with bows and arrows.

When all their things were safe inside, Leonard and Jack took some
fishing nets and soon caught some fish in the pools of the stream in
the canyon. They then made a fire just outside the cavern entrance, and
cooked them for their evening meal. The fish seemed to be a kind of
trout, but of a species they had never seen before.

Monella expressed his regret that all attempts to persuade the Indians
out of their fear of 'the demon-haunted mountain' had failed.

"They will neither come inside nor remain outside by themselves;
that is, if we go away from here to explore farther. It seems to me,
therefore, that we ought to have all our stores brought here before we
start, and then let the Indians go back by themselves. We may be here
for months, so had better get them to fetch everything we can possibly
require from 'Monella Lodge.'"

Such was Monella's advice.

"It will take two or three days at least--possibly more," he continued,
"to transport all our stores here. During that time we must be content
to attend to nothing else, and postpone any further exploration of the
mountain. Besides, when we once start, none can tell how far we may be
led on. Better have our 'base of operations' settled and secure first.
How far away are those other caves that you saw?"

"About a quarter of a mile," Jack answered.

"We will have a look at them in the morning," Monella said
thoughtfully. "It may be wiser to hide some of our stores and
belongings in different places, so that, if any accident should happen
to one lot, the others may be all right. Eh, Templemore?"

"Just the very idea I had in my head when I spoke to you of those other
caves," Jack responded. "We can take half an hour or so to explore them
in the morning."

"Better take longer," observed Monella. "Better take the day, and do it
thoroughly. Much may depend upon it hereafter. Suppose, therefore, that
you remain here while Elwood and I return to 'Monella Lodge' and see
about packing and bringing some of the 'belongings'? Then, if we find
another journey necessary, you can go next time, and Elwood and I will
remain here on guard. But we cannot get back to-morrow night. Do you
mind staying here alone?"

"Not I!" said Jack, laughing.

"Very well then; we will arrange it so. We shall load up our two
animals, and perhaps one journey will suffice after all. Any way, you
hunt for the best and most secret hiding-places you can find. See that
they are dry, you know. There are the three casks of powder----"

"What! Will you bring them too?"

"Certainly. We may have blasting to do before we have done with what
we have in hand. The extra arms, too, we will divide, and secrete in
different places."

"I see the idea," Jack assented. "Rely on me to do the best that can be
done."

The three went back, after their meal, to where the Indians were
camping just outside the 'window.' Matava looked grave, and shook his
head dubiously, when Leonard told him of the arrangements come to.

"My heart is heavy, my master," he said in his own language, "at the
thought of leaving you to fight the demons of the mountain. It is
not good this thing that you are about to undertake. Doubtless the
demons have left this place open as a trap to tempt you to enter their
country. When you are well inside they will close it and have you
securely captured and we shall never see you more. Alas! that my mother
should ever have said aught to lead you on to this terrible enterprise.
Better had she died first. I feel sure, if you go inside there, we
shall never see you again!"

Elwood only smiled, and bid him be of good cheer.

"We shall return," he replied, "and, I trust, not empty-handed. And, if
so, you and my old nurse shall share in my good fortune. But, if you
think there is danger, why do you not come with us to help? It is not
like a brave Indian to be afraid!"

The Indian shook his head and sighed.

"Matava is no coward," he responded. "His master knows that well.
Against all earthly dangers Matava will help him to his last breath,
but to battle with the demons of Roraima is but madness--and it is
useless. No mortal man may brave them and live. _Some_ one must take
the tale to those left behind. It is not good that they should never
know."

"That is a nice way of getting out of it, Matava," said Templemore,
who had just come up and heard the last sentence. "But please don't
take intelligence of our fate till you have learned it. Above all," he
continued seriously, "do not alarm our friends in Georgetown by any
wild, preposterous----"

"Oh, don't trouble as to that," Elwood interrupted. "Our friends know
Matava and his superstitions about the mountain too well by this time.
Besides, we will leave letters with him, to deliver, in case he returns
before we get back."

It was now getting dark, and the three white men went back into the
cavern to prepare their sleeping arrangements. First, it was determined
to make a more thorough examination of the side-galleries, and this was
soon done, for they were found to be of very limited extent. In passing
the archway that led into the canyon, however, Leonard happened to
glance out, and uttered an exclamation which called the others to his
side. They also looked out into the valley, and were as much astonished
as at their first sight of it that morning. It seemed to be lighted up!

On all sides, high and low, small lights were seen. They were of
various colours, and hung, some singly, some in groups or clusters.
Many drooped over the water, and were reflected in the pools below. The
effect was extraordinary. The place seemed a veritable fairy land; and
exclamations of astonishment and admiration burst from each of them
while he stood and gazed upon the scene.

Then they went out to the nearest lights, and the marvel was explained.
The bell-shaped flowers that had excited their curiosity during the
afternoon all glowed with radiance. Inside each was a small projection
apparently of a fungoid character, that was phosphorescent. It sent
forth a light nearly as brilliant as that of a firefly; and this
illumined the bell-shaped blossom, which then appeared of different
hues according to its colouring by daylight. Even those that Elwood
had picked, and thrown down at the entrance of the cavern, glowed with
appreciable glimmer.

"I've heard of some kinds of toadstools and fungi being
phosphorescent," Templemore remarked, "but never of such a thing in
flowers."

"Yet," observed Monella, "if you come to consider the matter, there is
nothing more remarkable in the one case than in the other."

The night passed without incident, and all were astir before dawn,
making preparations for the day's work. After a light meal, all
except Templemore set out on their way to 'Monella Lodge,' while Jack
went out into the canyon to seek for caves and likely hiding-places
for their stores, and to look about generally. He took with him his
usual two-barrelled gun, a supply of cartridges, and some biscuits
and other provisions. Water he knew he could get in plenty. He also
took a lantern to enable him to explore the caves. Before leaving the
'window,' as he now always called the entrance by which they had found
their way into the first cavern, he drew up the ladder, and then, with
some difficulty, rolled the stone that had closed it into its place
again. Most likely he could not have given any reason for this action
if he had been asked; but probably a vague hatred of the gloomy forest,
and satisfaction in shutting it out of view, were what chiefly prompted
him.

"I will take all I want round to the other side," he said to himself.
"I like that side best. It's a more cheerful outlook."

He thoroughly explored the caves, and decided that they were fairly
suitable for the purpose they had in view. Then, quite accidentally,
he came upon another that was so hidden by a tangled mass of creepers
that its existence would never have been suspected. He fancied he had
seen a small animal disappear behind a bush, and trying with a stick
to see whether he could rout it out, he found what at first he thought
was a large hole; but, on pushing back the creepers, which hung like a
curtain across it, he found a large opening about eight or nine feet
high. Inside was a roomy cavern with many recesses here and there, like
high shelves in the rock, and many short side-galleries. Just the very
place they wanted, he decided. Neither here nor elsewhere did he meet
with any signs of his pet aversion--the serpent tribe.

He now began the ascent of the canyon, following always the course
of the stream that came down it. In some places the way was easy and
direct; indeed, as he could not but remark, there was every appearance
that a well-defined, wide pathway, with steps here and there, had at
one time existed. But in places it was broken away; the steps cut in
the rock had crumbled, or trees growing in the fissures had rent them
asunder. In other places masses of rock, fallen from heights above,
blocked the road; and, occasionally, the trunk of a fallen tree. Then
he came to a wayside cave, and was glad to rest in its shade from
the heat of the sun, which began to pour down into the canyon with
intolerable fierceness. He had proceeded so far that he imagined he
must be half way to the top; and he looked up the canyon still beyond
him and at the overhanging cliffs with curiosity, wondering how much
farther he would have to go to reach its head, and what he would see
when he arrived there.

While he sat quietly pondering this question, and enjoying a smoke
following upon a light lunch, the idea grew upon him to complete
the ascent that afternoon. He knew that, if he did so, it would be
impossible to return that night, and this meant passing it in the open
air. But that he did not at all mind; he was accustomed to it; and,
since he saw no signs of serpents anywhere, there was an absence of the
only thing that troubled him in such case. Monella and the others would
not return till the following evening; he had plenty of time to do it
in, and nothing else to occupy his time.

But would Monella like it? Why, however, should he object? He could do
no harm in going to the top and back. It was not as though the place
were inhabited and he might get involved in any adventures with the
'natives.'

The more he thus thought about it, the more strongly did the feeling
grow upon him to make the venture. True, he had not much with him in
the way of provisions; but he had enough for supper and breakfast if he
put himself upon short rations. In the end he resolved to risk it.

Accordingly, so soon as the sun had gone across sufficiently to shade
the path, he started off once more, and made his way still upwards. He
encountered many obstacles that delayed his journey, but eventually,
just when night was falling, he arrived at what he calculated must be
the top of the ascent. It was a grassy plateau of a few hundred yards
in extent, facing cliffs that rose still higher and shut out the view
and were inaccessible. Down these the stream still flowed, though much
smaller in volume than was the case below. What, however, caused him
dismay, was to find that he was shut in on the other side by a belt
of forest that seemed to be almost as dense and impenetrable as the
hated wood below. It was too late to think of going back; there he must
stay and pass the night. It was cold, too, up there, and he had no
rug in which to roll himself. In fact, he began to wish himself back
in the cavern, where he could have cooked himself a good supper and
then rested comfortably. There was not even a view; he had hoped to
have a glorious prospect and, having brought his field-glass, even that
he might be able to look across the forest and savanna and make out
'Monella Lodge'; possibly see his friends, who would now be nearing it.
Instead of that, he was shut in upon a narrow ledge beside an unknown
forest that might be full of wild animals of a dangerous kind.

Altogether Jack felt he had not acted wisely. He went a little way into
the wood; but, finding it very dense, and fearful of losing his way in
its dark recesses, he soon returned to the clearing. Finally, as it
grew dark, being tired and drowsy after his exertions in climbing the
canyon, he fell asleep.




CHAPTER IX.

VISION OR REALITY?


The following afternoon, a long train of Indians, with Monella and
Elwood at its head, was making its way slowly along the tunnel-like
road that had been cut through the heart of Roraima Forest. They all
carried loads, and they had with them, besides, Monella's two llamas,
which were also loaded with as much as they could carry. All looked
more or less wearied from their long march, and cast many anxious
glances ahead as they approached the end of their journey. When they
reached the part where the path opened and the trees became thinner,
Matava fired two shots, the agreed-on signal to Templemore; they were
answered at once by one from him, and, shortly afterwards, he was seen
making his way towards them. He relieved Elwood of a few things he was
carrying, and inquired whether they brought any news.

"None," said Elwood; "and you?"

"First of all," returned Jack, "here's a very curious and awkward
thing. I have come across a large _puma_ that has taken a great fancy
to me, and has become somewhat of a 'white elephant.' At the present
moment it is looking out of window, anxiously awaiting my return; and,
though it has not yet learned to scramble down the ladder, I'm not at
all sure it won't acquire that accomplishment shortly--or it may even
risk the leap down. What I am thinking of is the animals you have with
you--they might tempt it; otherwise, it seems tame and good-natured
enough, and I do not think it will hurt either you or the Indians."

"Does it seem like an animal that has been tamed, then?" asked Monella.
"And where did you come across it? Inside, I suppose?"

"Why, yes. But I'll tell you later. Meantime, can't we halt the animals
here, and keep them out of sight for awhile? My new friend is as big
as a lioness, and of the same sex--and would have one of them down in
a moment, if she felt so inclined. You can't tie her up, you know,
without a collar and chain, even if one cared to make the attempt. I
tried to drive her away, but it was of no use; and I've been sitting
there racking my brains as to what on earth I was to do when you came,
and hoping against hope that the beast would take herself off." And
Jack looked the picture of comical perplexity and bewilderment.

Meantime, the train had come to a halt, and Matava and the other
Indians crowded round Templemore and examined him with great curiosity
and attention. There were many strange Indians who had been induced,
for a consideration, to accompany the party, and these were equally
inquisitive. Some came and touched him, as though to make sure he
was real flesh and blood. Since Jack seemed inclined to resent this,
Leonard laughingly explained.

"They can scarcely believe that any man can have passed a night in the
mountain and live to tell the tale," Elwood told Templemore. "Their
idea is that you have been eaten up or captured by the 'demons,' who
have sent back a ghostly presentment of their victim to lead on the
others. So they are anxious to know whether it is really yourself or
a spectral imitation. You may be sure, too, your 'lioness' will be a
matter of serious speculation to them. She will be looked upon as a
familiar spirit, to a certainty."

Monella had said little; but he now proposed to go on to the cave at
once with Jack and Elwood, to see how matters really stood, leaving the
others to await their return.

On nearing the 'window' they saw, sure enough, the head and paws of an
immense tawny-coloured animal that gave a cry--a sort of half-whine,
half-roar--of recognition on seeing Jack. The ladder was lying on the
ground outside.

"There you are," he observed with a mixture of mock gravity and real
anxiety; and he waved his hand towards the animal. "Let me introduce
you to the 'Lady of the Mountain.' I only hope to goodness she will
behave herself and receive you in a friendly manner; for, if not, _I_
have no control over her. I disclaim all responsibility."

Monella and Elwood looked curiously at what they could see of the
animal. It seemed, as Jack had said, nearly as large as a lioness.

"It is a puma," said Monella decidedly, "though a very large one. I
never saw one anything near the size. However, there is no need to be
afraid of it; you have heard me say you need never fear a puma."

"Yes," returned Jack, "and here is an opportunity of testing your
faith in your own theory. I confess, if I did not already know she was
well-disposed towards myself, I should think twice before I ventured
upon going near her."

"Nonsense!" said Monella, taking up the ladder and placing it against
the opening. "I will show you the creature is tame and friendly enough.
I could see it at the first glance." And he ascended the ladder and
entered the cavern, pushing the puma on one side as coolly as if it
were a pet dog. Then he turned and called to Elwood to follow.

Jack also went after them, and found the puma already on friendly terms
with both, much to his own relief; for he had had misgivings.

"The question now is what about the llamas?" he next said. "Do you
think she is to be trusted there--and with the Indians?"

"With the Indians--yes--though _they_ probably would object," replied
Monella; "but, with the llamas, it is doubtful. So we had best be on
the safe side, and keep them, if possible, out of her sight."

"She's wonderfully playful," observed Jack; "just like a great kitten.
I've been playing with her with my lasso, and she will run about after
it by the hour together, just for all the world like a kitten. If you
want to keep her out of the way on the other side, all that need be
done is for one of us to stay there and play with her."

"Let Elwood do so then," Monella decided. "He is tired; and you can
come and help unload."

The animal had, in fact, already begun to show a liking for Leonard,
and, when he went out towards the canyon, it followed him at once. Jack
watched this with some surprise, and affected much disgust.

"Just like the generality of females," he remarked, "inconstant and
changeable. Here have I been at the trouble of capturing the beast, and
being worried with her all day, only to see her transfer her affections
and allegiance to some one else at the very first opportunity!"

The unloading was then proceeded with, and before dark everything they
had brought was placed within the cavern temporarily, to be moved on to
other places, as might subsequently be determined.

When all had been brought in, the Indians set to work to cook their
evening meal, while Jack did the same outside the canyon entrance.
The hunters had shot an antelope, and with some of this and some fish
a satisfying meal was provided; the puma lying down and watching
the proceedings with evident curiosity, but with no more attempt at
interference or stealing than in the case of a well-trained dog.
Needless to say she was rewarded for her patience with a share.

When the meal was over, and Jack and Leonard took out their pipes,
Monella, looking at the former, said,--

"You have something of importance to tell us. What have you seen?"

At this Elwood turned and regarded Jack with surprise.

"Why, what is it?" he exclaimed. "You have said nothing about it all
this time!"

Jack looked a little sheepish. He was somewhat taken aback, too, by
Monella's direct question. It brought to his mind the query that had
often arisen before--could this strange being read his thoughts?

"I scarcely know whether I have seen something or only dreamed it," he
began hesitatingly; and seeing Leonard, at this, open his eyes, Jack
went on desperately: "Well, yes! I may as well out with it and make a
clean breast of it! I _have_ something to tell you, and for the life of
me, I cannot make up my mind whether I actually _saw_ it, or dreamed
it--whether, in short, it was reality, or only a vision!"

Leonard opened his eyes wider than ever, and gave a long whistle.

"_You_ having 'visions'!" he exclaimed in unbounded astonishment.
"_You_, the scoffer, the hard-headed, prosaic-minded derider of dreams
and visions! Great Scott! Is the world then coming to an end? Or have
the demons of the mountain in truth bewitched you as Matava declared
they would?"

"Ah! I knew you would laugh at me, of course. And I feel I deserve it.
However, if you want to hear what I have to tell, you will have to keep
quiet a bit. I cannot explain while you are talking, you know."

"I'll not say another word; I'm 'mum,' but amazed!" Elwood answered.
"Now go a-head."

"Well, yesterday, after you left, I pulled up the ladder and carefully
closed the 'window' by rolling the stone back into the place, as we
first found it. I thought to myself I would shut out the gloomy forest.
Then I went up the canyon to explore the caves we spoke of, and soon,
by accident, found a new one, so curiously hidden from sight, that
it seemed the very thing we wanted; so there was no need to search
farther. Then I thought I would stroll up the canyon a bit, and
reconnoitre; and I found another cave about half way up, and, finding
the sun getting warm, went in and had a rest. When it grew shady again,
I thought, instead of coming back, I would go on to the top to see the
view."

Monella uttered an exclamation.

"Ah! yes. I know you mean I ought to have kept below. However, no harm
has been done, and I could see no objection to going up and taking a
peep from the top. I had my glasses with me and thought I might even
catch a glimpse of you on your way to 'Monella Lodge.' However, by the
time I reached the top it was getting dusk, and, after all, I found
myself quite shut in by yet higher rocks on one side that I could not
climb, and a thick wood on the other. There was a grassy knoll of a few
hundred square yards in extent, and there I had to make up my mind to
pass the night. I was tired out; and, soon after it grew dark, I fell
asleep."

Templemore paused, and glanced doubtfully at Monella, as if expecting
him to say something; but he remained silent, and Jack proceeded:--

"I seemed to wake up after being asleep for an hour or two. I say
_seemed_ to wake up--I really cannot say--but either that, or I dreamed
the whole thing. Well, I seemed to wake up, and fancied I heard distant
shouts. I looked sleepily round and was surprised and alarmed to see
a very unmistakable glow in the sky through the trees. It struck me
at once that the forest must be on fire, and if so, I thought, my
position might be an awkward one. If the wood were burning, and the
fire travelling in the direction of where I was, to have to retreat
down the canyon in the dark would be anything but agreeable. After
some consideration I decided to venture a little way into the wood,
and climb a tree in the hope of getting a view of what was going on. I
could hardly, I reflected, lose my way, for, when I wished to return,
I should only have to turn my back on the direction in which the fire
lay and march straight back. Accordingly, I made my way into the wood;
at first it was very dense, but soon it grew thinner, and, encouraged
by this, I went straight on, when I emerged on to a high plateau, where
an extraordinary sight presented itself. I seemed to be on the edge of
an extensive sort of basin; I could see for miles; and in the centre,
as it appeared, there was a broad lake, and beside the lake were lofty
buildings lighted up on all sides, the lights being reflected in the
water. There seemed to me a large city; there were buildings that
looked like grand palaces; there were wide noble-looking embankments
and promenades and bridges, all well lighted; and, on the lake, boats,
also lighted, were going to and fro, filled with people. I could hear
shouts and cries, though of what nature it was impossible to say; and
through my glasses I could plainly distinguish numbers of people moving
about. It was as though some kind of _fête_ were going on. The large
buildings towered into the air, and their cupolas and turrets glistened
as though built of gold and silver. In effect, it was a wonderful
sight, and how long I stood watching it I cannot say; but, after a
time, the lights went down and all became silent and dark. I managed to
find my way back to my camping ground, and, while thinking it all over
in astonished wonder, I fell asleep again, as I suppose. At any rate,
when I finally awoke, the sun was shining and this animal was lying on
the grass by my side."

"What! the puma?" Leonard asked.

"Yes. I was rather upset at first sight of her, you may be sure. To
wake and find oneself in a wild place at the mercy of a great animal
like that is a startler for any one's nerves, I can assure you. No
chance to use one's rifle or anything, you know. However, while I lay
very still and watched it, not knowing what to do, I saw it must be
a puma, though an unusually large one. Then I thought of what you,
Monella, had told us--that we need never be afraid of a puma. And then
the beast turned round and began licking my hand! It stood up, too, and
purred, and put up its tail just like a tame cat; so I made friends
with it and found it was quite disposed to be on good terms. After a
bit my dream came back to me, and I went into the wood some distance,
but could see nothing. The forest seemed awfully thick, and to get
denser at every step; so I finally came away, thinking I must either
have had a remarkably vivid dream or vision, or that I had really been
the sport of some demons of the mountain such as Matava and his Indian
friends so thoroughly believe in." And Jack paused, and looked at his
two companions with an odd mixture of doubt and bewilderment.

Elwood's face, while he had been listening, had become lighted up with
sympathetic enthusiasm. It fell a little at the end of the recital,
when Jack made the suggestion about the 'demons.'

"Certainly," he said, "it sounds like witchcraft to hear you, our own
matter-of-fact Jack, who never dreams, make such suggestions. But,
either one way or the other, it goes to prove that there is something
very extraordinary about this mountain."

Elwood looked at Monella.

"What do you think of it all?" he asked.

"I think," he replied, "that our friend ought, in future, to be less
ready to deride those who may have to tell of strange things, whether
dreams and visions, or out-of-the-way experiences."

"I admit that to be a just rebuke," Jack responded with a good-natured
laugh; "but it does not tell us, all the same, what your real opinion
may be." But Monella had already risen from where he had been sitting
and moved away to speak to the Indians.

"I say, Jack," said Leonard, "can't you _really_ say, straight out,
whether you _saw_ this or only dreamed it?"

"Truly, my dear boy, it seemed so natural that I should say it was
real, only for the inherent improbability of the thing. Then, too, I
could see nothing this morning to confirm it, you know."

"Surely," Elwood said dreamily, "the Indian tales of demons that
can bewitch you cannot have any foundation? There cannot be an
unsubstantial city of demons to be seen at night, that vanishes and
becomes only plain forest in the daytime? That is taking us back to the
Arabian Nights, isn't it?"

Jack shook his head.

"I am more bewildered and puzzled than I can possibly give you any idea
of," he returned. "The whole thing is beyond me; the sight I saw, or
dreamed; and then, again, the behaviour of this animal here."

"Ah," Elwood said, "this puma! Does it not behave as though it were a
tame animal used to the company of human beings?"

"I must say that idea has occurred to me more than once to-day; but
the more I think over it, the more hopelessly puzzling the whole thing
becomes." And Templemore, for the time being, gave it up.




CHAPTER X.

IN SIGHT OF EL DORADO.


The next morning Templemore, after leading Monella and Elwood to the
hidden cave he had discovered, set out early with the Indians for
'Monella Lodge' to bring in the remainder of the stores; and, while
there, in the evening, he wrote long letters to his friends, to be
entrusted to Matava to take to Georgetown. Amongst them, we may be
sure, was one to the fair Maud, who, amidst all the excitement of his
adventures, was never long absent from his thoughts. His letter to her
was grave, almost sad in its tone. He knew he was about to set out upon
a critical venture, the end of which none could see, and he warned her
not to be surprised if nothing were heard of them for a long time.

When, the following afternoon, he and his party once more made their
way back through the forest to where they had left Monella and Elwood,
and had halted just out of sight, those two soon came to meet him in
response to the usual signal-shots. The first glance at Elwood's face
told Jack that he had some important news to impart. While Monella
was greeting the Indians and giving directions for the unloading and
camping, Leonard whispered to Jack,

"We've been up to the top and have seen all you saw. It was no dream,
old man, but simple reality. But don't let the Indians hear anything
about it, or they would stampede straight away."

Jack stared in mute surprise, scarce knowing what to think, whether to
be most pleased to have it established that he was not 'a dreamer of
dreams,' or astonished at the almost incredible fact it conveyed--that
the top of the mountain was, in very truth, inhabited.

"And the puma?" he asked.

"Is still with us. You had better go in and have a rest and take charge
of her, while we see to the unloading."

This Jack was glad to do, and, on entering the cavern, he was welcomed
by the animal with every demonstration of gladness at his return.

"Ah! you have not forgotten me then, old girl," he said, and he patted
and stroked the creature. "You're not so very fickle, then, after all.
Now come along with me for a while--I'm going to have a wash."

When all the fresh stores had been placed inside, and the Indians were
engaged upon their evening meal, and Monella and the two young men were
seated at theirs, Jack asked for further details of the wonderful news
Leonard had briefly spoken of.

"It is substantially a repetition of what you told us," said Elwood,
"save that we managed a little better in the morning than you did. That
is to say, we did not go the wrong way into the wood, as I suppose you
did; and thus, at sunrise, sure enough, we saw the wonderful city,
which Monella avers can be no other than Manoa--or, as the Spaniards
called it, El Dorado! We saw its palaces, and towers, and spires,
glistening and glittering in the sun--a marvellous sight! So, Jack, old
boy, you can be at ease; you are not yet 'a dreamer of dreams.'"

"But your intelligence, all the same, makes me feel quite dazed,"
answered Jack. "Are you _really_ sure about it? Are you certain--do you
feel confident that--er--well, that it won't all have melted into thin
air by the time we get up there?"

"Scarcely. It is too substantial for that."

"Then it means this--that the mountain _is_ inhabited after all," said
the puzzled Jack. "If so, what sort of a reception are they likely to
give us?"

"Well, that of course remains to be seen. But, meantime, it is certain
that all your clever theories about the place 'not having been peopled
for hundreds of years' are fallacious."

Jack presently asked Monella what he purposed doing next.

"We must put away our stores," was the reply, "and then arrange our
plans for making our presence known to the inhabitants, whoever they
may be, of the mountain."

"Yes, and then, if they speak the same language that you have been
teaching me," Leonard put in, "Jack will have reason to be sorry he has
not stuck to it a little more, I fancy."

Of late, Jack had practically dropped all efforts in this direction,
particularly during the last fortnight; while Elwood had neglected no
opportunity for using it in his converse with Monella. Elwood had, in
consequence, got so far as to be able to speak it fairly well; but Jack
was much behind him.

"By Jupiter! But I begin to think there is wisdom in what you say," was
Jack's response. "I must do my best to make up for lost time."

The night passed without incident. The Indians stayed on through the
following day, and Matava even yielded so far as to enter the dreaded
cavern, and take a look into the canyon. Elwood managed to persuade
him to do thus much, that he might take back to his friends at
Georgetown a description of the scene. Matava was rather afraid of the
puma, but the animal was quite friendly. The Indian evidently believed
that Elwood and his friends were going to their destruction, and would
never again be seen by mortal eyes. However, at Monella's suggestion,
he made for them during the day a more substantial ladder, which the
nails and tools brought with the stores enabled him easily to do. He
also made some poles or struts to form bars to close the stone from
within, and, with much perseverance, cut slots in the rock and in the
stone to receive them. When completed, and the struts put in their
places, the stone was firmly fixed and could not be moved from the
outside.

Then Monella made another suggestion. He arranged with Matava a few
simple signals that might be made from the mountain-top by flashing
small quantities of powder at night, and that Matava could, in turn,
answer from the plain beyond the forest, or, indeed, from 'Monella
Lodge'. These signals were simply--"All well," "Coming down," "_Not_
coming down." It was deemed best not to risk more than these, Matava's
intelligence in such directions being limited; and, since he could not
read, to write them down would have been useless.

When, on the last morning, the leave-taking came, the scene was an
affecting one. The Indians were well pleased with the rewards given
them for their services; but they were, one and all, in genuine
distress at the thought of leaving the three adventurers to what they
thoroughly believed would be a terrible fate. They even besought them
to alter their minds and "come away from the accursed place"; needless
to say in vain.

Matava, almost in tears, was loaded with messages to those in
Georgetown, should he go back before seeing the travellers again;
the understanding being that, if he found they did not return within
a short time, he was to conclude they would remain for an indefinite
period, in which case he would shut up 'Monella Lodge' and return to
Georgetown, and only expect to hear of them when he came that way again
in the usual course.

At last, the Indians sorrowfully set out and disappeared in the forest,
and Monella and his two companions set to work to distribute their
stores and spare arms and ammunition. It was decided, after some
discussion, to place the larger portion in the secret cave; leaving
only a comparatively small part hidden in the cavern they were in, it
being obvious that the latter was the one most likely to be searched,
if any should be.

In the carrying out of the plan settled by Monella, the whole of the
stores were divided roughly into two parts; two-thirds, and all the
spare arms, ammunition and powder, being hidden in the secret cave;
the other third, including most of their camping equipage, lanterns,
store of oil, etc., but no arms, being stowed away in various remote
parts of the cavern by which they had entered from the outer forest.
This was in accordance with certain anticipations and eventualities
that he had carefully thought out. Thus, if the people of the place
should prove unfriendly, and they were forced to retreat at once to
the entrance cavern, they had there, ready to hand, in addition to the
arms, etc., they took with them, all that was really necessary either
for a temporary stay or for the journey back to 'Monella Lodge.' On the
other hand, if the inhabitants should turn out to be hospitable, and
invite the travellers to stay with them, it might be a little while
before they returned to the cavern at the entrance; in the meanwhile it
might be entered and searched by others, who might carry off what had
been left there. But in that case the loss would not be a serious one
to the explorers, nor would the thieves find any arms or powder.

Early the next morning Elwood went out a little way into the forest
to cut some short poles he was in want of, when the puma--apparently
finding the new ladder more to her taste than the old one had
been--scrambled down after him and disappeared into the wood.

"We had better leave the ladder and go on with our work," observed
Monella, when told she had gone off and not returned. "No doubt she
will find her way back presently."

But they saw nothing of her till the afternoon, when she came in,
bearing in her mouth a good-sized wild pig, which she laid down quietly
at the feet of her astonished friends.

"Why, Puss," exclaimed Jack--he had of late insisted upon giving her
that name--"that _is_ an accomplishment, and no mistake! You can go out
hunting and get your own dinner, can you, and ours too? Well, after
this we need not want for fresh meat, apparently, while we stay here."

The meat was not only a welcome addition to their larder, so far as
they themselves were concerned, but solved the difficulty that had
begun to puzzle them, viz., how to find food for so large an animal.
Up to now there had been enough left over from what the Indians had
captured and brought in; but, since they had gone away, fresh meat had
been growing scarce, and to feed 'Puss' out of their limited stores of
tinned meats was, of course, out of the question.

"You'll have to leave us and go back to your friends, whoever they
are, Puss," Jack had said only that very morning. "We appreciate your
society and all that sort of thing, and shall be sorry to turn you out
of doors; but, unless you can crunch up meat-tins and imagine they are
marrow-bones, I really do not see where another meal for you is to come
from." Whether 'Puss' understood this speech or not, she had certainly
settled the question in her own way, and very quickly.

"You shall go out again, to-morrow, on this sort of expedition, Puss,"
observed Jack. And she did; and next time brought back a small antelope.

This led to a discussion and a good deal of speculation as to whom
'Puss' might actually belong to.

"I wonder who owns her, and whether they have missed her?" said Jack.
"And I wonder too whether there are many more like her on the mountain?
If so, why haven't we seen anything of any of the others?" Since,
however, no answer could be given to these questions, the speculation
remained a barren one.

After the stores had all been disposed of to his satisfaction, Monella
decided to stay on another day before making the venture of showing
themselves to the inhabitants; this was partly by way of a rest and
partly to give them an opportunity of studying the plants and rocks
in the canyon. Most of this day he spent in hunting for strange herbs
and leaves; while Jack and Elwood were more interested, after the
first feeling of surprise and pleasure in examining the flowers had
passed off, in searching for signs of gold among the rocks. They found
undoubted traces of both gold and silver, but in what quantity they
might exist it was not possible at the time to form any opinion.

Every night the canyon was lighted up in the fairy-like manner of
the first evening; and, during the day, two harp-birds had visited
the valley and enlivened it with their dreamy music. The travellers
also caught sight of two or three small animals; but did not obtain
a sufficiently good view to make them out, and Monella particularly
desired that they should not shoot at anything.

Of fish there was plenty; and bathing in the cool, limpid pools of 'The
Blue River,' as Jack had named the stream, was a welcome luxury.

Finally, having completed all their preparations, the three, on the
morning of the third day after the departure of the Indians, set out on
their enterprise of visiting the mysterious inhabitants of "The Golden
City."

They started at daylight, with just sufficient camping things for
passing the one night, heavily laden with spare ammunition, and
taking their Winchester rifles and revolvers, and one extra gun--a
double-barrelled fowling-piece. After a midday rest in the cave that
lay about half way up, they reached the summit, as before, at nightfall.

They assured themselves that the strange town was still in the same
place--had not vanished into thin air as an illusive creation of the
demons of the mountain. Then they settled down to sleep and were
undisturbed during the night.

When they woke at dawn on the day that was to prove so eventful, they
found that the puma had disappeared.

"Puss has deserted us," said Jack. "She knew she was close at home and
preferred the kitchen fireside, I suspect, like a respectable tabby,
to passing the night out here; and small blame to her. I shouldn't be
surprised, if we happen to come across her when she is in the company
of her own friends, to see her pass us by with her nose in the air with
a 'don't-know-you' sort of look. You'll see, she won't know us! she
would lose caste, I expect, if it were known that she had been away for
a week hob-nobbing with a party of houseless vagabonds like ourselves."




CHAPTER XI.

ULAMA, PRINCESS OF MANOA.


The morning broke fine, and the sun rose with a splendour that was not
often seen even in this land of gorgeous sunrises. As Leonard looked
up at the sky above, with its tint of deep sapphire blue flecked
with cloudy flakes, and cirri tinted with gold and pink and crimson,
he thought he had never witnessed any effect to equal it. But, when
they had quietly passed through the narrow belt of wood, and stood
just within its cover, gazing down at the wondrous 'golden city' that
lay sleeping at their feet, the three friends remained silent and
almost spell-bound. The scene was indeed one to which no description
can possibly do justice. The sun was just high enough to light up
the glistening towers and cupolas; and these, and the spangled sky
above, were reflected in the glassy waters of the lake. Beyond and
around all was haze of a rose-coloured golden hue, which gave to the
centre picture the effect of a vignette. From the upper parts, which
showed the clearest against this background of rosy mist, the various
buildings grew less substantial as the eye followed their lines
downwards, till the bridges and embankments seemed almost ghostly
and unreal, yet strangely beautiful in their airy lightness. And the
picture was so faithfully repeated in the lake that, but for the
reversal of the images, the line that divided the reality from the
shadow could scarcely be discerned; while the whole seemed poised, as
it were, in the ruddy-golden haze like a _mirage_ in mid-air. Just
below them a rocky spur jutted out with clear-cut outline against the
central scene, the palms and other trees with which it was crowned
showing a lace-work pattern of feathery foliage through which naught
could be seen but the golden mist. This part alone seemed real; the
city, with its towers, its lofty buildings, its bridges, and its lake,
seemed too fairy-like a creation to be indeed an earthly reality.

  [Illustration: "THE SUN WAS JUST HIGH ENOUGH TO LIGHT UP THE
  GLISTENING TOWERS AND CUPOLAS."
    [_Page 106._]

Of the three who were thus looking out upon this glorious sight, it
would be hard to say, perhaps, which was most affected by its subtle
influence. Templemore, notwithstanding his affectation of putting on
ultra-practical glasses through which to regard and analyse everything,
had, in reality--as is not infrequent with such characters--a deep
undercurrent of appreciation of beauty, whether exhibited in nature
or in the works of man. As an engineer, he could appreciate the rare
grace and exquisite proportions of the buildings, and of the bridges,
viaducts, and other such works, far better than could Elwood's less
trained mind; and then, his was a naturally generous and unselfish
nature, and--he was in love. Such a temperament cannot look upon
anything that charms, that satisfies the senses, without wishing
that the loved one were present to participate in the pleasure and
gratification experienced. And the absence of that companionship must
necessarily strike a chord of sadness and longing. He was one, at
heart, deeply sensible of these emotions; so sensible, indeed, that he
shrank from displaying them to onlookers; and thus it was that he half
unknowingly hid them beneath a veneer of 'matter-of-fact.'

Elwood's younger impulses, on the other hand, bubbled up on all
occasions unchecked and uncontrolled. He was of a highly imaginative
and poetic turn of mind; he was not in love, and hence, the vague
aspirations of his affections had as yet met with nothing upon
which to rest, or, as it were, to centre themselves. He was filled
with unformed hopes and shapeless expectations. The beautiful was
not satisfying in itself; it was but a stepping-stone, an enticing
indication of something still more pleasing yet to be met with beyond,
in the indefinite future. Thus he was always looking forward to an
horizon that lay beyond his ken; while Templemore's hopes and longings,
though they also turned upon the future, had found, in the being who
had won his love, a settled, definite purpose in life. Not that the
latter was altogether uninfluenced by that spirit of adventure which
always actuates, more or less, young men of his age and character;
though, in this respect, he might be swayed by somewhat more practical
considerations than was the enthusiastic Elwood. In the breasts of the
two, it could scarcely be but that there was some feeling of exultation
and pride in the consciousness that what they had achieved was likely
to bring them a high reward either directly or indirectly--in fame, or
wealth, or both--even though no sordid, grasping greed mingled with the
generous impulses natural to youth.

And Monella? With what feelings was _he_ swayed while he silently
surveyed the fair city that embodied the fulfilment of what he had
been striving after for so many years? He was old, he had no children
or other kin (he had declared) to interest himself in. Fame, power,
riches, he despised--so he had uniformly given his two companions to
understand. None of the motives that prompted the two younger men
seemed to apply in his case; yet the fact was patent to them--had been
all along, since first they met him--that he had been instigated by
some overmastering idea that had become, as Templemore had phrased it,
a sort of religion to him, a faith, a belief; that had urged him on
unceasingly where success had seemed hopeless and the difficulties of
his enterprise insurmountable. Templemore, at Monella's side, could
not but reflect upon this now; as he had similarly reflected upon it
when first they had found themselves veritably inside--so to speak--of
the hitherto inaccessible mountain. But now, mingled with Templemore's
admiring appreciation of all these things, there was a new element in
his feelings towards Monella, which he could only define to himself
as one of reverence. He felt inclined almost to take off his hat, and
deferentially salute the indomitable, high spirit that had led them
on to success, where success had seemed but a fallacious, impossible,
fatuous dream.

But Monella seemed unconscious of all such thoughts. He gazed out on
the scene before him with a countenance that expressed only a high
and simple joy. His tall, commanding form had never seemed to his
two companions so instinct with dignity and latent power as at this
moment; and in his eyes, when he turned his glance, with a smile, to
meet theirs, there were a kindness, a benevolence, a magnanimity even,
that seemed to fill up the measure of the feeling of respect that was
growing upon them--that made them wonder they had ever ventured to
treat such a man as one of themselves. This strange emotion swayed both
of them; they both felt it, though each thought it influenced himself
alone. Afterwards they found this out by comparing notes; and yet
again, in the time to come, they lived to comprehend that this vague
idea had been something more than a fancy; it had been an instinct
growing out of a solid, though then unknown, reason. It signified that
the parting of their several ways, as between them and him who had been
their comrade thus far, had commenced, had been already entered upon.

For a while they continued to gaze with swelling emotions upon the
wonderful town. Bathed in the light of the rising sun, it slowly grew
more substantial to the view, and its stately buildings gradually
assumed increased solidity and reality. Their graceful outlines and
proportions, their masterly design and bold execution, the novelty
and originality everywhere apparent, impressed Templemore with
astonishment, just as they delighted and satisfied the poetic fervour
of Elwood. Templemore presently turned to Monella.

"Never have I seen the like of those structures," he exclaimed, "either
in the places I have visited or in the pictured representations of
the most celebrated cities of the world. Surely this people must be a
nation of architects!"

"You speak truly, my friend," Monella returned. "I have travelled the
world over and I have not seen the like elsewhere. But, as I have
told you before--as I warned you I expected would be the case--we
have here the chief town of an ancient people; a race so old that the
oldest Egyptian records of which the world has any knowledge relate to
peoples, and times, and things that are but as yesterday compared to
the remote period to which these people can trace back their history.
So is it written in my parchments."

"And is what we see, that glistens everywhere, truly _gold_--upon the
very spires and roofs?" asked Elwood.

"I cannot say; but it may well be so, for these parchments of mine
assert that gold is the most plentiful metal of any in these mountains.
They say that the inhabitants used it for common purposes as other
nations use iron; and that, in fact, iron and steel were far less
common than gold and silver. But I think it is time we started down the
slope to reconnoitre and await our opportunity."

The plan Monella had arranged was that, after concealing in the wood
at the top the few camping requisites they had brought with them, they
should move down towards the city through the clumps of trees, keeping
within their cover, till they came to the point where the trees ended;
that they should remain thus concealed for a time to see what sort of
people passed to and fro, stepping out and making their presence known
only when they saw any one who might be supposed to be a person of
standing or authority.

Following out this plan, the three moved on through groves and
plantations of trees bearing luscious, tempting fruits of a kind and
nature totally unknown to them. Wonderful flowers, too, they saw on all
sides, and many strange and curious birds; amongst them the harp-bird,
whose enchanting notes came floating every now and then upon their
ears. In due course they reached the farthest and lowermost clump, and
here they were therefore compelled to pause. So far they had seen no
one; but it was yet early morning.

The thicket within the shelter of which they now stood was upon a knoll
that was not a great way from the lake. Looking across its waters
of turquoise blue, they now made out that which had so puzzled them
before. Moving on its surface were numbers of white swans of gigantic
size; and it was these, as they subsequently ascertained, that drew the
boats about which had seemed to glide here and there without sails or
oars. They had seen these great swans through their glasses, but had
believed them to be vessels fashioned in that shape; deeming them too
large to be really living creatures.

Suddenly, Elwood gripped Templemore's arm, and pointed to some one--a
youthful maiden seemingly--walking along the border of the lake in
their direction. She came to within a few hundred yards, and then stood
looking dreamily out over the lake at the towering, palatial buildings
upon the opposite side.

"Great heavens!" Elwood exclaimed in a whisper. "The face, the form,
the very _dress_ that I have so often seen in my dreams! Can it be
possible? Am I awake, or is this, too, but a vision from which I shall
awake by-and-by?"

Monella put his hand upon his shoulder as a sign to him to be silent,
and pointed to other forms approaching from the same direction. They
all seemed to have come from a great pile of buildings near the water's
edge some half-mile away. It was partially screened by groups of waving
palms and other trees, which hid from view the entrances.

The new-comers consisted of a tall, handsome man, of a dark-hued skin,
and richly dressed, and a following of a score or so of men, apparently
a guard or escort. They carried spears that flashed and glittered in
the sun, as did their burnished shields and helmets. These seemed to be
of gold; they wore short black tunics and sandals. They halted--upon
a sign from the one who seemed to be their leader--while he advanced
towards the girl. Just then she turned and caught sight of him. At this
she uttered a sharp cry expressive of surprise and fear; then walked
quickly up the slope towards where the three travellers were concealed.

The man followed and overtook her when she was about a hundred and
fifty yards from the edge of the wood. He seized her by the wrist; but
she, wresting herself free, turned and confronted him, regarding him
with a proud disdain, in which, however, fear was also plainly--too
plainly--written.

Now that they were closer, the concealed witnesses could distinguish
pretty clearly, through their glasses, the features of the two who
stood facing one another, neither for a full minute uttering a word.

As to the maiden, she was in very truth a dream of loveliness. With
skin as white and fair as the most delicately reared Englishwoman,
glistening golden hair, large grey-blue eyes of entrancing and lustrous
beauty, a perfect oval face, and a figure the very embodiment of grace,
she appeared indeed more like the creation of a vision than an earthly
being of flesh and blood. She was not exactly tall, yet of fair height
for a woman. Her dress seemed of silk; it was rich-looking, but quiet
in colour, and flowing in design. She wore golden ornaments enriched
with glistening gems, and her hair, falling loosely over her shoulders,
was confined by a broad gold circlet on the head and was cut short
over the forehead. And in her face was an expression of exquisite
sweetness--albeit now there were distracting emotions mingled with it.
The clear-cut, pouting lip curled in scorn, though, the while, the
eyes showed fear, as do those of the hunted hare. Timidly she glanced
around, as if for aid; but not a soul was to be seen save those who
accompanied the man she feared, and from them, it was clear, she could
expect no help.

As to the man himself, he was, as has been said, of fine stature and
handsome; but his was not beauty of a prepossessing character. His
dark face expressed arrogance and cruelty; in his smile was cold,
deadly menace; his haughty features wore a scowl; and his dark eyes
fairly blazed with passion. Upon his head he wore a coronet of curious
design in lieu of helmet or other covering. His tunic was of black
material--silk apparently--with a large star worked in gold upon the
breast. A belt as of gold was round his waist, and a short sword and a
dagger were by his side. His hair, full beard, and bushy eyebrows were
jet black; so far as one might judge he looked about thirty-five years
of age. The tunic had short sleeves and was cut low so as to display
his neck, round which was a kind of necklace; upon his bare arms were
bracelets, and in all these ornaments there flashed, as he moved,
sparkling jewels of large size and surprising lustre.

Then ensued, between the two, a hot discussion or dispute, though those
within the wood were too far away to understand its purport. The man
advanced again and again in a threatening manner towards the girl, who
as often retreated a short distance up the slope; then, each time,
turned and faced her adversary.

Suddenly, the man seemed to give way to a burst of fury; with a gesture
whose murderous import there was no possibility of mistaking, he drew
his dagger from its sheath, and tried to seize the girl; but she,
eluding him, turned and ran farther up the slope. The man followed, and
coming up with her, seized her by the wrist, and raised the hand that
held the dagger.

At this moment Monella stepped out from the wood and called loudly
to the assailant, at the same time holding up his hand in warning;
but Elwood, revolver in hand, rushed forward in advance of him, and
levelled the pistol at the moment when the blade was poised in the air
and was about to be plunged into the bosom of the girl, who had now
fallen upon her knees. He was only just in time; for the weapon had
already commenced its fatal downward sweep when the report rang out;
the murderer's arm gave a jerk that cast the dagger a distance of
some yards, and the man himself fell backwards with a bullet through
his heart.

  [Illustration: "SHE STOOD REGARDING THEM WITH WONDERING LOOKS."
    [_Page 115._]

Elwood hastened to the assistance of the girl, who swayed as though
about to faint; but the sight of the strangers seemed to rouse her,
for she rose to her feet and stood regarding them with wondering and
evidently doubtful looks. Then she turned her glance upon the dead man,
and shuddered at the thought of the death she had so narrowly escaped.
Looking once more at the three who now stood in a group a short
distance from her--for Elwood had drawn back on seeing her rise to her
feet--she drew herself up with a charming dignity and grace, and, to
the surprise of the two young men, asked, in the language Monella had
taught them,

"Who are you?"

The words were intelligible enough. The inflection, the accent, or the
exact pronunciation, may have been slightly different from Monella's,
but the words rang out clear enough.

"Who are you?"

Monella stepped a pace or two towards her. His lofty form seemed to
grow in dignity the while he bent his gaze upon her; and, looking up
into his face, she could scarcely fail to read the true meaning of the
glance she met. She felt its extraordinary fascination, and yielded to
its influence, as so many had before. Her confidence went out to him at
once; and her look, that for the moment had been proud and distrustful,
softened into one of friendly interest. She bowed her head as though
in involuntary respect--the respect a dutiful child might show to a
parent--and spoke again; this time varying the form of her question:--

"My father, whence come you?"

"We are strangers from far countries, my daughter," Monella made reply.
"We came here in peaceful and friendly intent, but fate has so ordered
it that our arrival has been marked by the shedding of blood. Still,
though of that I am deeply regretful in one way, I cannot pretend to be
sorry, if, as I see reason to believe, it has saved your young life."

"Truly it has, and I thank you; and the king, my father, will thank
you too; though I know not by what marvel it was accomplished, nor by
what other marvel ye have come here, you who wield the lightning and
the thunder, who hold men's lives in the hollows of your hands, and yet
speak our language."

"Time enough to explain that, anon, my child," was Monella's answer.
"For the moment we must know what yonder people are about to do. Their
intentions seem scarcely to be friendly."

This referred to the small company of guards or soldiers, who were
being harangued by one who appeared to be their officer, and who, when
he had ended his speech, formed them into line, as though for a charge
upon the strangers.

The girl turned round and looked at them; and, doing so, her face grew
pale.

"Alas, yes!" she exclaimed. "I had forgotten them for the moment. They
are the special soldiers of Zelus whom ye have slain; and their officer
will seek to carry you all before the father of Zelus, the dread High
Priest. His vengeance will be cruel and terrible, if you fall into his
power; but, if we could but get back to my father's palace, you would
be safe; for he would protect you for my sake--for the sake of what ye
have done for me to-day. But alas! How can that be? They are many and
ye are but three. Ye have not even swords or spears--unless, indeed, ye
can serve them as ye have served this one."

"Fear nothing for us, my daughter. We can truly serve these others
in the same way, if the necessity unfortunately should arise. But we
seek it not; we have come here, as I have told you, with peaceful
intentions, and we have no wish to signalise our arrival by further
bloodshed. Will you not, yourself, speak to these foolish people, and
warn them not to rush upon destruction? Tell them we are powerful, and
that, in your own words, we hold their lives in the hollows of our
hands. If they will depart in peace, they may, and bear with them the
body of their chief; but, if they dare approach with hostile intent,
then shall they fall before us, ere even they have time to come a dozen
paces, even as men are struck down by lightning. Tell them this, and
urge them to be friendly; for we are not of the nature of those who
take delight in slaying. To us, to slay is easy, but abhorrent."

The girl heard this with increasing wonder. She viewed the rifles
(which all three were now handling) with a curiosity she did not care
to hide. She took them for some sort of magic wands.

"I will perform your wish," she said, "but I doubt my power to stay
them, for they are men used to working their own will, and now they
seek your lives in revenge for this man's death. Indeed, they well know
they go to their own deaths if they return to Coryon, the High Priest,
and bring not with them those who slew his son."

She turned to go towards the soldiers, who were now standing in two
ranks, with spears in rest, awaiting the word of command.

"Stay," said Monella. "If they listen to your words, they will want
to come here to take up the body of their chief. We are willing they
should do so; but it were better we did not meet, for I do not trust
them, and they might plot treachery. See!" And he took his lasso from
where it hung at his waist and laid it in a straight line on the
ground about twenty feet from the dead body. "We will retire towards
the wood; and let it be clearly understood that they must not cross
that line nor touch that cord. If any man do so, he shall surely die
then and there. Let them not think, however, that we retire from
fear, because of their number. But now, my daughter, take heed lest
they seize you. Be sure you keep near enough to avail yourself of our
protection; but stand not between us and them, lest the lightning
strike your own form in its course. Once launched, it goes straight to
its mark, and blasts all whom it meets upon its path."

"I understand," she answered. "But you need have no fear for me, so
far as these people are concerned. Their chief has dared more to-day
than has ever been known before; but none of these would lay hand upon
Ulama, the daughter of their king."

"Then," said Monella, "if you feel sure as to that, do not approach
them, but go thirty or forty yards to the right, and bid them come
near enough for you to address them from there. For the rest we will
answer." And, with a sign to his companions, he walked slowly up the
slope towards the wood they had left but a few minutes before.




CHAPTER XII.

A PRELIMINARY SKIRMISH.


The words that had been spoken on both sides in this conversation the
two young men had followed fairly well; though they had listened in
silence and made no attempt to join in the discussion. On their way
back towards the wood, Elwood was at first very thoughtful; then he
turned to Monella and said excitedly,

"How do we know she is safe, out there alone? And what will her father,
the king, say to us, if harm come to her? It seems to me we are acting
in strange fashion to leave her thus."

"Patience, my son," returned Monella quietly; "we must avoid the
shedding of blood, if it be possible. We have come here, as I have
already said, with peaceful motives. If violent acts be forced upon
us in self-defence, let us keep at least our conscience clear; let
us be in a position to show that they _were_ forced upon us. Let it
not be said of us that we have come into a strange land to introduce
dissension, and discord, and internal warfare; and all for no other
reason than the gratification of an adventurous spirit."

"But," said Elwood, "_we_ have not introduced dissension and trouble.
It is clear enough that a terrible murder would have been perpetrated
had we not been here to prevent it. Surely, no one can accuse _us_
of commencing bloodshed; and, as to the rest, why, what are the lives
of two or three scoundrels like these, the infamous myrmidons--if we
may believe what we heard--of a bloodthirsty 'high priest'; what are
the lives of two or three such wretches, compared with the safety of
this gentle, trustful girl, whom we are leaving now almost at their
mercy? In my view this is one of those cases in which offence is the
best defence. They are showing their intentions pretty clearly; let
us anticipate them by shooting one or two. That will frighten the
remainder, and stop further hostile action; and, moreover, prevent
their coming near this young lady, or princess, as I suppose she really
is."

"I am bound to say I rather agree with Leonard," said Templemore. "I
see, clearly enough, we are in for a fight, and shall have to kill two
or three. Why not as well do it first as last? If, as she says, they
are used to do as they please in the land, and if what we have just
seen is a specimen of their style, pity is thrown away upon them. And,
besides, is it good generalship, Monella? To attack first would be sure
to scare them; but, if they make a rush, in absolute ignorance of the
power of our rifles, may they not, some of them, charge home? And then
we should have a hand-to-hand fight where they would be four or five to
one."

Monella passed his hand over his face, and answered almost sadly,

"There is a time to be forward in attack, and a time to be forbearing.
If the time come for the former, no man will ever see me flinch from
it. But you know what has been said, that the shedding of blood is like
unto the letting out of water, and that he who begins it is accursed.
If these people begin it, we will not shrink; but at least we shall
have clear consciences. Now listen to my plan. We must not enter the
wood, or they will think we have fled. If they cross the line I have
laid down, let each take the man opposite to him in the line, and bring
him down. Then, if they still rush on, fire once more, and step back
into the shelter of the wood. If they follow, you know what to do; your
revolvers will suffice."

Meantime, Ulama, as she had called herself, had been addressing the
soldiers. Their officer had advanced to speak to her, and angry talk
had been exchanged, which those standing at the edge of the wood, with
rifles at the 'ready', could not hear. But when, finally, she shook her
head meaningly, and began to retire towards them, Jack Templemore set
his teeth and said,

"I told you so! I knew it meant a fight! We might just as well have
begun it, as let them think we are afraid."

"There is yet a chance," replied Monella. "They may hesitate to pass
the line I have laid down. In any case, all we can now do is to wait
and see." And, as Ulama came towards them, he signed to her to step
aside, out of the line of fire.

The officer had returned to his men, and, after a short consultation
with one who seemed to be next in command, the two ranks advanced, with
the slow, measured tread of a well-disciplined troop, up the slope. On
reaching the dead body they were halted while the two officers examined
it. They had not understood how their leader had been killed; nor did
they understand it now. They had heard the report of the pistol and had
seen their chief fall, but the report had not been a loud one; and as
Elwood had run forward at the time, for all they could see (Ulama being
between them) he might have hurled a spear at Zelus. Yet the sound of
the explosion had puzzled them, and stayed them from rushing instantly
to the assistance of their leader. Altogether, they were perplexed.
The dress of their opponents showed them to be strangers. They appeared
to be unarmed, yet had they killed their dreaded master in the face
of his guard. This argued conscious power; and it behoved them not to
be too precipitate. After this fashion, probably, reasoned the two
officers.

If so, the examination of the dead body could but add to their
uncertainty; for they found there a wound they were quite unable to
account for. It was not a spear thrust; it was not a wound from a sword
or dagger. The scrutiny, in effect, yielded them no enlightenment; but
the sight of the dead body of their leader and of the blood exasperated
both officers and men, and murmurs were heard, and cries for vengeance.
They probably began, too, to remember what Ulama had suggested--that
if they went back with the dead body of their chief and without the
slayer, their own lives would be forfeited. And all this time the
strangers stood calmly regarding them, watchful of their movements, but
offering neither to retreat nor to attack them.

After some further consultation, the one who seemed to be in command
turned towards where the three strangers stood; flinging down his
sword, he stepped forward and threw out both his hands, to signify that
he desired a parley.

Thereupon Monella also advanced a few paces; then paused for the other
to address him.

"Who are you? Whence come you? Why do you enter our land in this
fashion by killing one of the greatest in the country?" asked the
captain of the guard.

"The answers to your first questions are for your king's ear alone,"
returned Monella. "As to the last, we came in peace, but interfered to
save a maiden from being murdered."

The other's face expressed an evil sneer, and he made answer:

"It is not usual, with us, for men to throw away their lives for
women. For what you have done yours may be required. Still," he added
diplomatically, "I am not judge nor executioner--unless you resist me.
If, therefore, you will surrender like men of peace--as you say you
are--and will come with me to tell your tale to my master, I promise
you good treatment while in my custody."

Monella shook his head.

"You have had my answer," he said. "We seek your king. We will yield
ourselves to no one else. And," he continued, with louder voice, "since
you, my friend, dare to deride us for taking a woman's part, know that
in the land we come from we are not accustomed to stand still and look
on while women are being murdered. What manner of _men_ are _ye_ who
dare openly proclaim so vile a doctrine? Soldiers of a High Priest?
Guardians of a 'religion' that teaches things like this? The span
that shall be left to such a being as ye serve is growing short. His
power is waning, his days are even now numbered." He raised his arm,
and extended it towards him he was addressing; then, with gathering
force, and even passion, till he seemed like an inspired prophet of
old thundering his denunciations against evil-doers--"We came here in
goodwill and peace; we may remain to be a withering scourge to you and
him you call your master. See to it, and take warning! There must--and
there _shall_--be an end of such deeds as we have this day seen
attempted by--as ye have no shame in avowing--the favoured son of your
High Priest. Hence from my sight, ere scorn and anger overcome me! I
have but to move my finger, and you fall dead before me!"

For the first time in their knowledge of him Templemore and Elwood saw
their leader, usually so calm and equable, moved by a passion that was
almost uncontrollable. They glanced at one another in surprise; and
well indeed they might. For whereas, at first, they had felt almost
impatient of his equanimity, and had feared he lacked the sternness to
deal with those they were opposed to, yet now they thought only how to
restrain his sudden and unlooked-for passion, lest it should embroil
them further than was actually necessary.

But the fire of Monella's rage expired as suddenly as it had kindled.

"You have heard," he went on, coldly and disdainfully, to the captain
of the hostile group. "I have warned you. I spare your life to give you
time to do better."

But this contemptuous treatment, so far from having the effect
intended, seemed to rouse the other's fury.

"Think not to impose on me by empty threats and vain-glorious
boasting," he retorted. "I summon you to yield and come with me. If
not, and we have to kill you in striving to enforce obedience, the
consequences be upon your own heads."

"And I say that I have warned _you_," returned Monella quietly. He
stooped and picked up a stone, then threw it to within three or four
feet of the cord that lay between them.

"If," he said, "you but cross that cord so far as that stone, you die."

Instantly the other took up the challenge. He stepped back for his
sword, then walked boldly forward, Monella meanwhile falling back in
line with his companions; but the instant the other crossed the cord,
Monella's rifle rang out, and the fatuous soldier fell prone upon the
sward.

Then a tall fellow burst from the ranks and, brandishing his spear,
rushed towards the fatal cord; he was followed by an adventurous
comrade; but, e'en as they stepped across the line, they both bit the
dust. Then all the others turned and fled; all save the second officer,
who stood his ground, neither advancing nor retreating. He remained
leaning on his sword, and looked, by turns, first at his flying men,
then at the dead bodies that lay around him, finally at Monella and his
companions.

Monella advanced and thus addressed him,

"How is it you stand thus in hesitation, friend? Are you in two minds,
whether to fight or to fly?"

The second officer was a fine-looking young fellow with features that
were not unpleasing. With a steady glance he looked Monella in the face
and answered,

"I am no coward to run away, and no fool to rush to meet a thunderbolt.
Whoever you are, it is plain that we are powerless against you. But
indeed," he went on, with something almost like a sigh, "when I heard
your words I felt no stomach to fight against you, if so be that they
are true."

"I am well pleased to hear you say so, friend," Monella said, laying
his hand upon the other's shoulder. "You have seen what it is in our
power to do. I call upon you to be a witness in the presence of your
king--of all your people--that we did not resort to force until all
other means had failed."

"That will I gladly do," returned the officer, bending his head in
courteous salutation. "Few would have been so persistent in their
merciful intention. For myself, I know my fate if I rejoin my master;
therefore, if you will accept my service, I would fain join myself to
you. One can but fight and die; better to do so in the service of such
a chief as you, than of him I have lately served," and he seemed to
shudder while he spoke.

Just then the maiden joined them, and he saluted her respectfully. She
looked at him with sorrowful eyes.

"And is it Ergalon," she said, "that could stand by to-day and see
another man raise his hand to slay the daughter of his king, and not
move a step to hinder him? Has Ergalon indeed sunk so low as this?"

The words were said in pained surprise rather than in anger; and in the
gentle eyes she turned upon him there was no sign of aught but mild
reproach. But this seemed to cut him to the heart, when ringing words
of accusation would, perhaps, have failed to move him. He fell upon one
knee and bent his head.

"Alas! Princess," he cried, "I well deserve your scorn; yet knowest
thou not how that against my will I have been forced into this service.
Well I know that to ask pardon would be useless--the king will never
pardon, should this reach his ears; still less will Coryon. Yet I care
not if thou wilt but grant me _thy_ forgiveness. If these strangers are
thy friends, grant me to serve thee by serving them; and should this
service be even to death, it will content me that thou shouldst say of
me that Ergalon had done his duty, and redeemed himself in thine eyes."

"Be it so, Ergalon," Ulama answered, her voice and manner charged with
a sweet graciousness that quite captivated the three bystanders. Then,
turning to Monella, she continued, "My father, I owe you much for what
you have done to-day. I shall try in the future to repay you to some
measure. Meantime you will need friends--accept from Ergalon this
proffered service. I feel sure, after what has happened, you may trust
him--even to the death. I know not who you are, whether immortals, or
beings of like nature to myself, thus timely sent by the Great Spirit
to my aid. But this I know, that I may trust you; that you have come
to be my friends, and my friends from henceforth you shall be."

It would be difficult to convey an idea of the wonderful mixture of
simple gentleness and queenly dignity with which these words were
spoken. Further, it would be hard to say which of her hearers was most
impressed. She had the art of winning hearts without intending or
desiring it; and few could long resist the fascination of her presence.
Small wonder then if Leonard Elwood had already fallen incontinently,
helplessly, irretrievably in love.

"And now," she finished, "I invite you to my home, where my father will
bid you welcome."

"And these?" Monella asked, pointing to the dead bodies.

"Ergalon will know what to do," she answered; and moved away in the
direction she had indicated.

But by this time a small crowd was on its way to meet them. Those
forming it were, as it appeared, chiefly her maidens and attendants and
a file of soldiers--her guards. They looked curiously at the strangers,
but, at a sign from her, fell in respectfully behind the little party.

"Doubtless you marvel," she observed to Elwood and Monella, between
whom she walked, "how it comes about that with all these people to
attend and guard me, I was alone this morning. But for that chance the
dead Zelus had never found his opportunity of saying that he did to me.
He must have been watching for it; perchance had heard that I sometimes
like to steal away alone for a little ramble. One gets so tired of
always having people around one," she added, with an almost childish
wilfulness. "But this will cure me. For the future I shall be more
careful."

Templemore, meantime, strolling along behind the others, found himself
somehow placed between Ergalon and a dainty little damsel whose name,
he afterwards found, was Zonella. She was Ulama's close friend, and was
most busy plying Ergalon with questions about what had taken place. At
the noise of the firing they had rushed out in alarm; then, missing the
princess, had set out to seek her. In reply to her inquiries, Ergalon
gloomily referred her to Templemore, and on this slender introduction
the two soon found themselves in friendly converse, rather to the
increase of their companion's moodiness.

It was well for Templemore that day that his affections were
unalterably fixed upon a chosen fair one; else, inevitably, had he lost
his heart either to the fair Ulama or to the dark-eyed, captivating
Zonella. As it was, he was compelled to own that he had never seen
two more fascinating maidens--save--save, of course, Maud Kingsford.
In that reservation--and in that alone--lay the salvation of his
heart. But this Ergalon knew not; and since he had long ardently--but
vainly--sought the favour of Zonella, he was none too pleased to see
her so quickly place herself on friendly terms with a total stranger.

But Templemore's acquaintance with the language was so limited, that
his part in the conversation consisted more in listening than in
talking; and his thoughts were more concerned in observing all that
went on around him than in studying Zonella herself.




CHAPTER XIII.

A KING'S GREETING.


During the walk--which now more resembled a procession, for they had
been joined by numbers of the inhabitants who had heard the rifle shots
and had come out in curiosity or alarm to inquire into the cause--Jack
Templemore had observed many pumas that, like tame dogs, accompanied
the people who crowded round them. They were mostly smaller than the
one that had followed him from the mountain top down the canyon, though
a few equalled it in size. But he looked in vain for any sign of
recognition from any of them; and it really seemed as though his own
jesting prophecy were being actually fulfilled.

They now arrived at a colossal edifice that reared its soaring walls
and towers high up in the sky. They passed between its open gates, that
appeared to be of gold and iron, beneath an archway that, far above
their heads, spanned the space between two lofty towers of pink-white
stone. In the courtyard within were many other soldiers. These, when
the party entered, seemed crowded together in some confusion; but, at
sight of Ulama and her attendants, they quickly formed into lines, in
obedience to hoarse words of command, shouted by officers in gorgeous
blue uniforms, and with white plumes waving in their helmets.

The courtyard was large enough for two or three hundred men to drill
and march about in. In the centre was a fountain that threw into the
air a jet of water that fell back with a sound of refreshing coolness
into a marble basin, from which rose curious-shaped green plants that
showed in pleasing contrast to the dainty whiteness of the stonework.
Here and there were marble statues, and, between them, large vases
filled with flowering plants. Above, a broad gallery ran round the
enclosure, and from this a number of richly-dressed people gazed down
upon the strangers as they entered with Ulama. The latter, making signs
to Monella and his two friends to follow her, proceeded, through lines
of soldiers and attendants who fell back respectfully before her, to
an apartment at one side, outside which all remained save two or three
whom she specially invited to accompany her. Around, were benches or
divans and couches covered with richly embroidered stuffs; upon these
she bade her guests be seated, begging them to await her while she
sought out the king and solicited an audience.

When she had gone, a sudden silence fell on those she left behind; a
silence that was the more noticeable, coming, as it did, after the
confused hubbub and clank of arms that had filled the courtyard on the
arrival of the strangers.

The scene was certainly a curious one. The homely, travel-stained
dress of the new-comers contrasted strangely in its nineteenth-century
plainness with the elaborate, brilliantly-coloured costumes of Zonella
and the half dozen members of the princess's suite who had entered with
her; with the luxurious carpets, rugs, and cushions everywhere around;
and with the magnificence of the whole surroundings, that spoke more of
the sumptuous luxury and elaborate decorations of a Moorish 'Alhambra'
than of what one would have expected in this isolated city of the
clouds.

Monella stood, lost in thought, with bowed head and folded arms,
his rifle, that that day had sent three human beings to their long
account, resting against the wall beside him. Elwood, whose eyes had
followed Ulama till she had disappeared through the inner door, also
stood plunged in reverie, not noticing aught of his surroundings. Of
the three, Jack Templemore alone seemed alive to the interest and
strangeness of the scene. His keen, steady eyes were making mental
notes of every line of the architectural designs, as though with the
object of afterwards constructing a like edifice from memory; and, from
the building, they travelled to its furniture and decorations, and
thence, finally, to the dress and appearance of those of the princess's
suite who stood or sat around. Ergalon had remained outside with many
more.

Presently, Templemore said quietly to Zonella, somewhat to her
astonishment,

"What is the name of this city?"

"What!" she exclaimed, "do you not know then that you are in Manoa?
Where did you suppose you were?"

"Manoa! H'm. The same as 'El Dorado,' I suppose, as the Spaniards
called it?"

"I know nothing of that, or of who you mean by 'the Spaniards,'" she
replied. "Fancy your coming here and not knowing the name of the place!
_Where_ have you come from? I long to hear all about it. Are all the
people there white like you and those with you? We have always been
instructed, by our teachers here, that only black demons lived in the
world beyond our island--at least we still so call it; though, of
course, it is no longer an island; has not been for many, many long
ages."

But when Jack attempted explanations, he soon discovered that he knew
too little of the language to make things clear to his companion. He
became hopelessly involved, his descriptions quite impossible, and, in
the end, he had to give it up as hopeless.

"You must wait till I know your language better," he said with a sigh;
"or else question my friends, who know far more of it."

"I will wait as patiently as I can until you can tell me yourself," she
answered with an arch look. "I shall like better to hear it from you. I
feel, too, a little afraid of your friend there--the older of the two.
He seems so proud and dignified."

Jack laughed.

"He is anything but that. He is as kind-hearted and good-natured a man
as I have ever known. To-day he looks more serious than usual, perhaps.
You see, we have had a disagreeable adventure, and do not yet know what
may be its consequences."

"I think, all the same, he is a man of great pride and dignity,"
Zonella repeated. "He might be a great chief--a king--so far as one can
judge from what one sees. He is not of the same race as you," she went
on with decision. "He is more like one of my own people. Your younger
friend, too, is not unlike one of our people; though I do not see the
resemblance so strongly there, as in the case of the other."

This odd suggestion almost startled Templemore. Curiously enough, the
same idea had struck him several times during the past half-hour;
since, in fact, the opportunity had offered of comparing Monella's
face and form with those inhabitants he had seen. Except that he was
taller than any, there were many points in which there was obvious
resemblance; and Jack began to ponder upon it as a strange coincidence.

He was also surprised at the confidence with which the young girl had
declared Monella to be of different race from himself.

"You must be an unusually quick observer," he said presently, "to
distinguish these things so readily. In my land young ladies do not
much trouble themselves----"

Suddenly, Zonella laid her hand upon his arm and leaned forward with a
look of fervid earnestness.

"_Who_ is this man?" she asked. "What is his name, and what brings him
here, and just at such a time, too?" This last seemed to be said more
to herself than to her companion.

"He is called Monella," Jack told her. "I know of no other name; and,
as to why he is here, I can no more tell you that than why you yourself
are here. In some things he keeps his own counsel absolutely, and is
altogether inscrutable."

"Ah!" Zonella said this with a long breath. "Then, though he is your
friend, and you are here together, you _really_ know nothing of him. Is
that what you mean?"

"Well," returned Jack slowly, "it's rather an abrupt way of putting it,
but--well, I never thought of it in that light before--but--I really
think you have about hit it."

"Yes! You and he have met by chance, and have agreed to travel together
for a time. And you have let him bring you here, I suppose, without
troubling yourself to ask him his objects?" Zonella went on, still with
her glance fixed on Monella.

Jack opened his eyes.

"You have a very direct way of putting things, I must say," he laughed.
"But again, I am bound to admit you are not far out."

"And your other friend--what do you know of him?"

"Oh, I have known him since he was a child."

"And yet," the girl persisted, "he is very different from you. Are you
_sure_ he is of the same race as yourself?"

"Quite," Templemore replied, laughing. "We are both of a nation that
I suppose you have never heard of, but that makes no small amount of
noise in the outer world, I can assure you. We are both English."

Just then a heavy curtain was drawn back, and Ulama entered, and with
her an immense puma, larger even than their friend of the canyon, and
behind it the latter animal itself!

"Why," exclaimed Zonella, "there is 'Nea,' who has been missing for
several days," and she called the animal to her. Great was her surprise
to see it, after a brief acknowledgment of her greeting, turn to Jack
and his two friends, with every sign of recognition and delight.

"Why, it's Puss, by all that's wonderful!" Jack cried. "At least,
that's the name I gave her," he added, by way of explanation to Zonella.

"Do you know her, then? But how can that be?"

"She has been living with us for the last week; but she deserted us
last night, and we wondered where she had got to."

"Then that accounts for it. We could not think what had become of her."
And she began to chide the animal for its desertion of its home and
mate.

"If 'Tuo' had known you were off gallivanting with strange people,
'Nea,' I fancy he would have come after you and marched you back."
Then, to Templemore: "But how odd that she should attach herself to you
like that; you must have had some strong attraction for her."

"It was not what she got to eat, at any rate," said Jack. "In fact, I
fear she was half starved. And at last she got so disgusted at what, I
suppose, she thought our stinginess, that she went off hunting on her
own account; and what she caught she offered, with a splendid lack of
selfishness, to share with us." And he went on to tell how he first met
the animal; Elwood, meanwhile, recounting the same story to Ulama; and
they learned that the two pumas were named 'Tuo' and 'Nea.'

Presently, the princess gave a sign to her attendants, and they all
followed her from the apartment, leaving the three strangers by
themselves.

Elwood was the first to speak.

"We are to wait till the king is ready to receive us," he said. "I
wonder what he is like, and what sort of a reception he will give us!
What say you, Monella?"

The latter turned slowly, and seemed to wake as from a deep reverie.

"I know not what to say, my son; but I am full of pain at all that has
happened to-day. My mind misgives me that civil war will come out of
it; yet we can but try to do our best, and leave the rest to a higher
power."

It was not long before the curtain was drawn aside again, and one
entered who seemed to be a dignitary of the court.

"I have come," said he, "to conduct you to King Dranoa." And, with a
ceremonious bow, he motioned to them to follow him.

They passed through many passages, across galleries and large halls,
and up broad staircases covered with thick soft carpet that was
noiseless to the tread.

On their way they saw many people of various costumes and appearance,
who regarded the new-comers curiously, but not rudely. Presently they
reached a heavy curtain before a doorway, where stood more soldiers and
officers in brilliant uniforms. The curtain being drawn aside, they
entered an immense hall, its sides lined with people, but the whole
centre part unoccupied. They were ushered up this hall and there left
standing, their conductor retiring to one side.

They found themselves confronting a high canopy, beneath which, upon a
raised dais, a man, apparently somewhat past middle age, was seated;
they had little doubt he was the king. He was a man of a fine presence,
and seemed hale and vigorous, though his dark hair and beard were
streaked with grey. His features were regular and well formed, his
eyes steady and piercing; his expression was not unkindly; but his
chin suggested weakness, a wavering and unsettled temperament. He was
dressed in a long flowing robe, and large jewels sparkled upon his
breast and shoulders, in the belt that girdled his waist and in the
hilt of his short sword. On his head he wore a circlet that was simple
in design, and scarcely to be called a crown; it was a band of gold
with gems set as stars. Ulama was seated by his side; she, also, wore
a golden circlet in which gleamed, with softened radiance, one cluster
of large pearls. She had changed the simple dress in which she had been
clad when they had first seen her, and now appeared in a costume that
was fairly dazzling in its richness, yet in exquisite taste, and well
chosen for showing to advantage her graceful figure.

At her feet Zonella sat, or rather half reclined, and other members of
her suite were grouped around. Upon the other side of the king stood
his ministers and officers of state, and his body guard, and, ranged
around the hall, were many others of both sexes, looking curiously and
silently upon the strangers.

Over the canopy was an immense star wrought in solid gold. Statues on
pedestals were to be seen at intervals, and, most curious of all, on
the walls were well-executed coloured frescoes depicting battle scenes.

The king rose and addressed them.

"Friends, I know not whence ye come, what brought ye hither, nor how ye
succeeded in passing the wood of black demons and forced your way into
our land. In ordinary circumstances it would have been my duty to send
ye away forthwith, or even to imprison ye--possibly, still worse might
have befallen. But my daughter hath told me that ye have saved her
life--a life doubly, trebly dear to me in that she is my only child.
But that ye came so opportunely on the scene, she who is my heart's
pride would e'en now be lying in the cold grasp of death."

Here he paused, overcome with emotion.

"So," he presently went on, "it has been described to me. I understand,
also, that, by some strange chance, ye speak our language, and
comprehend what I would say. We knew not that there were people outside
this land of ours who were white like us, and, above all, could speak
our tongue. But these wonders ye shall explain afterwards at your
leisure. At this moment not curiosity, but gratitude inspires me, in
that ye have restored my child to me. There is not one here"--his eyes
travelled round the packed assemblage--"who will not join with me in
thanking ye for that which ye have done. What say ye, friends?"--this
to his people--"Ye have heard in what dire peril hath my daughter been
this day. Shall we not give to those who rescued her a right good
welcome?"

At this, the hitherto silent crowd burst out into acclamations. They
cheered, they clapped their hands; they waved banners, they raised
their spears and swords aloft and flashed them in the air; again and
again the shouts went up, till they seemed in very truth to shake the
walls.

When, by a motion of his hand, silence had been restored, the king
resumed,

"Ye hear! All greet ye, and _I_ thank ye. Be assured of my protection
an' ye have come in peace. But alas! I grieve to say I am not
all-powerful. There are reasons for enjoining upon ye that ye be
circumspect in your going to and fro, have always with ye the escort I
shall give ye, and visit only places they shall indicate. This is not
the time or place for further explanations, nor is it fitting I should
now hear the wondrous things I doubt not ye can tell me. I only wish it
understood that while I shall give ye my protection, and that of those
devoted to me, ye must not hope too much from it; and it may fail ye,
if ye observe not the conditions and limitations I have stated; the
cause whereof I shall explain hereafter."

"While we return thee our thanks, O King," Monella answered, "on our
part, also, let it be understood that we can protect ourselves. The
cowardly assailants of the princess thy daughter fell before us like
chaff before the fire. We could, an' we had chosen, have destroyed them
all, even to the last one; but we spared some that they might noise
the tale abroad and warn others of their kind not to raise their hands
against us. Yet do I regret that it was necessary to kill any. We came
in peace and goodwill, not to maim and slay, or to spread alarm and
desolation through thy land. Yet this was forced upon us."

"It hath been so told to me. Perhaps, as ye say, ye can protect
yourselves; and it hath been further told to me how ye wield the
lightning and the thunder and blast your enemies, hurling them to the
ground ere they can reach ye. For all that, if ye would go about in
peace, and avoid the need for further exercise of your death-dealing
powers, accept the guard I offer. If occasion arise, and they fail ye,
and ye can help in your own defence--well, by so much the better will
it be."

"Thou hast well said, O King. It shall be as thou hast spoken," Monella
returned.

Throughout the interview the king had been eyeing the commanding
figure of the man before him, not only with great intentness, but also
even anxiously. Indeed, Monella, with his lofty stature and intrepid
bearing, his nobly chiselled features, his bold, unflinching glance,
would have made no unfitting occupant of the throne. And, possibly,
this thought had struck the king, who once more spoke.

"And now I would fain know thy name, and what hath brought thee."

"I am called Monella."

"Monella! It hath a sound as of our own tongue," returned the king.
"And thine end in journeying hither?"

"That is for thine ear alone, O King," Monella replied with decision,
thereby arousing the surprise of all, the king included. Then, drawing
from his breast a sealed roll of parchment he had brought with him,
"But here is that which will in part explain." And he handed the
document to the king.

The king unrolled the parchment, but, as the first words met his eye,
he started; then, growing more intent, he read on. But presently, in
evident agitation, he stepped down from the dais, placed his hand on
the other's arm, and said in a voice that trembled with emotion,

"I will speak with thee alone. Follow me into my private chamber." And,
looking neither to the right nor to the left, he passed down the hall,
Monella following, the crowd opening out to give them egress.

No sooner had they gone, than confused murmurs of astonishment and
curiosity burst out on all sides. Elwood and Templemore, as much taken
by surprise as any one, looked each in the other's face inquiringly;
but Zonella glided to their side and said in a low tone to Templemore,

"Said I not that thy friend was no ordinary man? Monella! Is it
not like my name, Zonella? Methought, the moment my eyes rested on
him, 'That man is a great man--a wondrous man--and he is one of our
people!'"




CHAPTER XIV.

DAKLA.


Ulama also left her seat and came forward to the two young men.

"Your friend," she said, "has taken my father by surprise; else had he
bidden you be seated. Nor did I know that he could not earlier have
received you, or I would have sent my maidens to you with refreshment.
Come now and sit near us, and I will point out to you my friends that
they may be your friends; meantime Zonella will order fruit and wine
for your sustainment. Anon you will be invited to our table; but
meantime you will need something. We all do," she added, when they made
gestures of dissent, "so you will not be conspicuous in partaking here
of what we offer you."

Pages then entered bearing luscious fruits and tempting-looking foaming
drinks; the former on massive salvers of pure gold, the latter in
chalices of gold and silver set with gems. The fruits were all new to
them, as also were the drinks; but, on tasting them, they found them to
be all they looked.

The fruits were indeed delicious and refreshing; the drinks cooling
and exhilarating: to Elwood and Templemore they were as nectar and
ambrosia, and they said so, and asked many questions concerning them.
But, seeing that the only information they received was a string of
names that conveyed to them no meaning, they added little to their
stock of knowledge.

They now talked freely with those around them; but found the questions
showered upon them from all sides somewhat more than they could answer,
so that Templemore said at last in an aside to the other,

"Tell you what it is, Leonard; we shall have to give a public
lecture--or perhaps a series--and invite as many at a time as the
Town Hall of the place will contain. Pity we didn't bring some magic
lanterns and dissolving views to illustrate what we have to tell them.
I _would_ have done so if I had only known."

They, in their turn, were not less full of curiosity and interest in
all they saw around them. The statuary, and, above all, the pictures
amazed them.

"It upsets all one's notions of history and all that," said Jack
quietly to Leonard, "to find this sort of thing in the so-called 'new'
world. We might be back in Ancient Greece."

"Or Babylon, or Nineveh," Elwood answered. "It's like a dream--and,
strange to say, I have dreamed much of it before. I keep thinking I
shall wake up presently and find that this city, with all that it
contains, has vanished."

"I trust not," said Ulama--to whom the last part of the sentence had
been addressed--with a smile. "I should not like to think that I,
myself, am but a dream. But, since you speak of having dreams of that
which you find here, know that I have strange dreams also. All my life
it has been thus with me. Of late they have been less frequent than of
yore, and the memory of them is confused and indistinct; but I know
that in them I have seen--aye, more than once--_your_ face, and the
face of him you call Monella."

Elwood regarded the maiden in surprise, and she continued,

"Yes, it is true. Tell me, Zonella, have I not often described to thee
those I had seen in my dreams; and did not some resemble these? As to
face thou canst not know, but as to garb and other details?"

"'Tis true," replied Zonella gravely.

But the matter-of-fact Templemore found it hard to credit this; visions
and the like were nothing in his way.

"Are you serious?" he asked.

"Quite," both said.

"And--me--a--I--myself, I mean; was I there too?"

Templemore's manner when he asked this question was so humorously
anxious that Ulama laughed--a joyous, ringing laugh, the token of a
soul innocent and free from care.

"No, indeed," she answered. "I never dreamed of you."

"And you?" he asked, turning to Zonella.

"No, never;" and she too laughed merrily.

"It really doesn't seem fair," said Jack, with an injured air. "Waking
or sleeping, my friend has been a dreamer all his life; when we met
with Monella we found he was one of the same sort; so those two were on
terms immediately; but I--I am out of it all. Never had a dream in my
life worth remembering. Not only that, but--as it now seems--I can't
even get into other people's. I put it to you, Princess, am I not a
little hardly done by?"

Thus they laughed and chatted, and time passed on, and still Monella
and the king were closeted together. It was more than an hour--nearer
two--before the king returned; and then alone.

"My friends," he said, "the audience is at an end. Affairs of state
demand my earnest thought, and I must now dismiss you. But," beckoning
the two young men to him, and taking in his own a hand of each, "once
more let me commend these strangers to your care and friendship.
They have rendered me to-day a service that is beyond price, and in
rendering it to me, they have rendered it to us all. More I need not
say, except to charge you to make their stay with us a pleasant one."

He withdrew, and, with his absence, the crowd began to thin; only those
belonging to the court remaining.

And now Ulama spoke.

"I shall hand you over to my good friends here," she said. "Doubtless
you will wish to make a change in your apparel and----"

"Unfortunately we brought no change with us," said Jack.

"They will bring you a choice of vestments," she answered, laughing.
"You will surely find something to your taste." She bowed courteously,
and went out, followed by Zonella and her attendants.

They were now taken in charge by the high chamberlain, whom they
already knew by name--Colenna. He, in turn, handed them over to his son
Kalaima, a bright-eyed, fair, talkative young fellow with whom they
quickly found themselves on pleasant terms. He conducted them to a
suite of chambers which would be, he said, reserved to them. They found
there various suits which he laid out for their selection, instructing
them, with much good humour, in the way in which they should be worn.
These were, so he told them, the distinctive dresses of a noble of high
degree; and were presents from the king as a mark of his special favour.

Elwood laughed at Jack's expression while he turned over the various
articles after Kalaima had left them to themselves, examining in turn
the white tunic of finest silk embroidered with strange devices, the
cap with jewelled plume, the heavy belt of solid gold, and the short
sword and dagger; all ornamented with precious stones of greater value
than they could estimate.

"Are you really going to deck yourself out in these things, Leonard?"
he asked, with a rueful look. "Am I expected to do so too? Great
Scott! What would our friends in Georgetown say if they could see us
masquerading in this toggery?"

"When at Rome you must do as Rome does, I suppose," Elwood returned
lightly. "After all, I don't suppose it will seem half so strange to
the good people here as would our continuing to wear our present dress."

"There's a good deal, no doubt, to be said for that view," Jack said
with resignation. "And, since it is intended as a compliment, I suppose
we must e'en accept it as such. I only hope I shall be able to keep my
countenance when I look at you--that is, before the king and others. At
present I feel very much afraid that it may prove beyond my powers."

In their suite of chambers was a bath, with water deep and broad
enough to swim in. A refreshing plunge, a reclothing in the unfamiliar
raiment, and they emerged from their apartments dressed as nobles
of the country. The attempts, honest, but too often futile, made by
Templemore to preserve his gravity, caused him at times more personal
discomfort than did even the strange garb but, since use accustoms us
to pretty nearly everything the efforts required became gradually less
and less.

But what sobered him, so to speak, the most, was his meeting with
Monella, who was now attired in like fashion to themselves. The change
seemed to have made an extraordinary alteration in the man. He looked
taller and more imposing than ever, and in his gait and manner there
were an added grace and dignity. It could now be seen that his form was
supple and muscular as that of a young man's, graceful in the swing of
the limbs and in every pose. His eyes retained their unique expression
that seemed to magnetise those upon whom they fell; but his face had
a greater gravity than ever, and something of a majesty that awed
Templemore when he noted it.

"Of a truth," he said to Elwood, "that man seems to alter from day to
day even from hour to hour. He is just as kindly, as courteous, and as
gentle; just as thoughtful--yet, I feel somehow that there is a gulf
deepening between us, and that it is widening, slowly but surely. Yet
not because one likes him less--that's just it, you seem to like him
and admire him more and more--but you feel you do it from afar--from a
gradually increasing distance."

And when, later in the day, they sat down to a banquet at the king's
table, and saw Monella seated beside the king, taking the post of
honour and accepting it with the easy dignity of one who had been
used to it all his life; not only the observant Jack, but the less
seriously-minded Leonard, felt, with increasing force, the feeling the
former had described.

During this repast they learned that the Manoans were vegetarians;
though their cookery was so skilful that such dishes as the strangers
tasted they found both appetising and satisfying. Not only that, but,
as they soon discovered, these dishes were fully as invigorating and
nourishing as a meat diet. This was due to the presence of some strange
vegetable or herb in nearly every dish; but what this was they could
not then determine.

At dusk, a new surprise awaited them; for, not only the palace, but
the whole city was lighted up by what they quickly recognised as the
electric light. They now could understand the brilliant aspect of the
city as first seen by them at night from the head of the canyon.

After the meal, Templemore and Elwood went out, with many more, upon
a terrace that overlooked the lake; where now boats were going to and
fro, some paddled by oars, some drawn by the large white swans. But
what at first puzzled the new-comers were the antics of some who threw
themselves into the water from considerable heights. Instead of falling
almost vertically, as a diver would, they swept down in a graceful
curve, striking the water almost horizontally, then bounded up and flew
through the air for a short distance, till once more they touched the
water and bounded up again. Finally, when the impetus was expended,
they swam back to shore or were taken thither in a boat. Of course this
style of bathing could not be practised _in puris naturalibus_, or in
ordinary bathing dress; so they were furnished with a kind of divided
parachute, or twin parachutes, not unlike artificial wings; with these
they could descend from towers and great heights and with a long
swallow-like sweep, striking the water and rebounding again and again.
By practice some had obtained a wonderful dexterity in this amusement,
and their evolutions would have deceived a stranger, viewing them from
a distance, into a belief that they were actual flying creatures. Some
of the children--who chiefly delighted in this pastime--were very
expert at it.

While watching the gay scene before them--a repetition of what they had
witnessed from afar--Kalaima came to say that the king requested their
presence in his council chamber. Following the young man they entered
a hall, smaller than that in which they had first been received, and
found the king throned under a canopy as before, and Monella seated
near him. Around the hall were ten or twelve of his chief ministers and
officers, each placed before a small table, Upon which were ink-horns,
pens, and sheets of parchment.

Standing in the centre of the chamber was a man of swarthy skin and
haughty mien, his expression cruel and deceitful. He wore a black tunic
on which was worked a large golden star like that displayed by the
ill-fated Zelus. Standing respectfully a short distance behind this man
were two others, somewhat similarly attired.

The leader had just finished speaking when Templemore and Elwood
entered, and he cast at them a scowl that was almost appalling in its
malignity.

The king signed to the young men to seat themselves beside Monella;
then, turning to the man who had just spoken, said,

"It avails nothing, Dakla, for thee to come to us with messages of this
intent, and with presentments, void of truth, of what befell to-day.
Here are the three strangers who, as thou sayest, opposed themselves
to Zelus, the son of Coryon thy master. They slew him, it is true, and
some of those who followed him, but it was to save my daughter from his
violence."

"It is false, O King! They lie, if they say so! For our lord Zelus had
no thought of violence!" This from Dakla.

"If thine errand here is but to charge with falsehood these three men,
I'll grant thee audience no longer." The kings voice was stern, and
his eyes flashed angrily, so that Dakla trembled, and there was less
confidence in his tone when he replied,

"But they are strangers whom the king knows not; wherefore should he
accept their word before our trusted servants?"

"Because it is confirmed by mine own daughter, sirrah! And if thou
darest again to say it is untrue that Zelus lifted his hand to take her
life, thou shalt not return unpunished, be the consequences what they
may!"

By the king's impressive manner, and still more by the menace he had
thus let fall, Dakla seemed daunted. He had expected to be able to
carry things his own way. He hesitated, then said in a milder tone,

"But even so, they should not have taken the life of our lord Zelus,
but have brought him before _thee_."

"How could they do that when he had more than a score of men with him,
and they were but three? Furthermore, there was no time for parley. An
instant's hesitation, my daughter saith, and it would have been too
late."

Dakla reflected; then he made a fresh suggestion.

"It will content us if the king remit to us for trial him who, with his
own hand, did slay our lord. If, on due inquisition, it shall be found
even as the king hath said, then shall he be returned unhurt."

The king's face clouded, and his lips curled with scorn as he replied,

"Out upon thee, with thy tricks and cunning snares! Thinkest thou we do
not know thy master by this time? These strangers are my guests--under
my protection! Hark ye! I say under my protection! If harm shall befall
them, I will seize thyself, an' thou comest again within my reach, or
any others of thy master's minions on whom I can lay hands, and their
lives shall pay the forfeit."

"Thy words will grieve my master, King Dranoa," said Dakla, with a
scarcely hidden sneer. "He careth only for the welfare of the king and
of his people. But how shall there be safety for the dwellers in this
land if such as these may go abroad and slay at will, and be protected
by the king?"

"What safety is there now for any, when even the king's daughter cannot
walk near mine own palace without assailment?" the king wrathfully
demanded. "Hold thy peace, sirrah! and quit my sight ere worse betide
thee!"

At this Monella rose, and, bending towards the king, said something
in a low tone to him; the king, assenting with a nod, Monella slowly
turned his glance upon the henchman of the priest, and thus addressed
him,

"I have the king's permission to send a message of my own to Coryon,
since the opportunity now offers. It is well that thou shouldst bear
it, and better still if thou takest it to heart. I sent the same
message by the murderous crew that followed at the heels of thy late
shameful lord--as thou callest him--Zelus. It is this: that such things
as he attempted will bring down vengeance and retribution on you all.
Bid Coryon take heed and mend his ways; if not, his doom is fixed. We
are but three; yet, if we chose, and the king so willed it, we could
clear thee and thy master and his brood from off the land--aye, ere
another sun has risen and set. And tell Coryon this, by the king's
permission we are here, and, as thou hast heard, under his protection.
For that protection we are grateful, but we need it not. If thou, or
any of thy serpent brood molest us, we will hold you all to such a
vengeance as shall repay the wrongs of others and rid the earth of you.
I sent this message by Zelus's craven hounds, but my mind misgives me
that in their flight they scarce remembered it; or, perchance, they
feared to give it. Wilt thou now bear it to thy master?"

"Who art thou that dares to send a message of defiance to the great
Coryon?" Dakla asked.

"One who can carry out his words; one who, as the ally of the king,
will bring upon your heads that which has been so long deserved. One
who, though he spared thy myrmidons to-day, will spare no more. Beware!
Attack us, and we show no mercy!"

With each succeeding sentence he seemed taller, more imposing, and more
menacing; until the last words were fairly thundered out, and his eyes
flashed fire.

The countenance of Dakla fell before his gaze; he hesitated, panted,
turned to go, then turned back, and finally, as one who spoke against
his will, he said, with no show of his former mocking insolence,

"Sir, I will bear thy message." Then, with an obeisance to the king, he
and his attendants left the place.

"I would give something to know what the king and Monella talked about
so long to-day," said Elwood to Templemore that night, when they found
themselves alone together.

"So far as I can gather," Jack replied, "there is a grand old feud on
here between these rascally old priests, on the one side, and the king
and his followers on the other; and Monella, I suspect, has learnt
enough concerning it to lead him to back up the king. Well! So far as I
am concerned, I am game to back him up, too, against such a murdering
lot as they seem to be. What say you?"

"You need not ask _me_," Elwood answered with some surprise. "But I
thought that you--well--that is----"

"Would be rather more slow to get up enthusiasm, eh?" Jack interrupted
with a laugh. "Not at all. Fooling about in a dark, gloomy forest, with
no apparent end in view, was one thing; taking part in an adventure
of this kind to help a lot of people who have received us kindly, is
quite another; to say nothing of helping the king, who's a regular
brick, and his daughter, who's----"

"An angel!" put in Leonard.

And Jack laughed, but approvingly, and said good-night.




CHAPTER XV.

MARVELS OF MANOA.


During the following days Elwood and Templemore learned much of the
strange land in which they found themselves; of its people, of their
condition, and other details. But, since to give every separate
conversation, incident, or other means by which they gained their
information, would be tedious, it will suffice to cite some extracts
from Templemore's diary that summarise the knowledge then and
subsequently obtained.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am able now to jot down some account of this strange place and its
inhabitants, so far, at least, as my limited knowledge of its language
and other means of information go.

"The people seem to be amiable, fairly intelligent--considering,
of course, that they know nothing of the great world outside--and
generally well disposed. Although they maintain a small force of
'soldiers' or 'guards,' and drill and discipline them with as much
assiduity as though they might be called upon to engage in warfare,
yet, as a matter of course, there are no people with whom they can go
to war; nor is there any likelihood of their having to fight, except
amongst themselves. And this, unfortunately, has not been unknown;
moreover, there are 'signs in the air' that it may not be unknown
again.

"An unexpected discovery we have made is, that this mountain is
connected with another close to it and called 'Myrlanda.' The
connection is underground, and was made originally in the course of
mining operations.

"Undoubtedly, _once_ these people were a great nation. Their arts
and sciences, their buildings, their engineering works, and their
knowledge of mechanics, all give evidence of this; but, since a nation,
isolated as this has been for ages, must necessarily either progress
or retrogress, the Manoans slowly, gradually, but surely, have done
the latter. They have numerous museums which are full of wonders of
all sorts, pointing to lost arts, lost sciences, lost inventions, lost
knowledge of all kinds. The fact that the demand has fallen off with
diminishing population has led to the discontinuance of manufactures;
though, in the museums, there are evidences that they once existed.

"This is the case as regards chronometric instruments. Their
occupations being desultory, they have little need to know the time of
day; so the use of clocks and watches has 'gone out of fashion,' and
there does not now exist a person in the two 'islands'--as they still
call these two inaccessible mountains--who can make a clock or a watch.
Yet, in their museums they have many ancient specimens of clocks and
watches of various kinds.

"Like remarks apply to many other arts and sciences and
manufactures. The cause is likely to be found in the fact of their
non-intercommunication with other nations.

"But the most wonderful thing of all, in this land of marvels, is a
plant or herb they call the 'Plant of Life.' This, I am assured (though
it seems hardly credible), if taken from time to time in certain
forms, combined with other plants found here, induces great longevity
in the recipients. The king, for instance, who looks between fifty and
sixty years of age, I am seriously told is three hundred and forty! Yet
that, even, is nothing out of the way here; for--assuming that they
speak the truth--there are among the priesthood a few who have lived
in the land one thousand, fifteen hundred, and two thousand years and
more! I should scarcely take the trouble to write this down, were it
not that I find it a matter of such common belief on all sides that
it is impossible to avoid regarding it seriously. When first these
statements were made to me I sought Monella and reported to him what
had been told me, remarking that I thought it somewhat in bad taste
on the part of my informants to combine together--as it seemed to me
they must have--to palm off such tales upon a stranger. To my utter
astonishment, he replied that he had reason to believe that there
was truth in what I had been told! He had doubtless heard the same
thing--and he is so quick to probe to the very root of whatever excites
his interest, and a man so difficult to deceive, that, on receiving his
solemn assurance (I asked for it) that he was not jesting, I felt bound
to regard the matter attentively. I, therefore, set to work to get at
all the facts as well as I could, and to see and examine the wonderful
plant for myself. In this way I have arrived at the following data:--

"The plant, which is called 'karina' in the language of the country,
is of a curious delicate, clear, blue tint--almost transparent in
appearance, and in texture smooth and glassy-looking as to the
leaves. It grows to a height of two or three feet, and is succulent
in character; exuding freely, when squeezed, a juice which has a very
strong bitter-sweet taste. It is prepared in several ways--many
having, it is believed, secret recipes which have been handed down
from father to son from generation to generation; but they all relate
more or less to a tea or infusion of the leaves, with or without the
admixture of other herbs or drugs. To have the full effect it must be
taken regularly, almost from infancy; indeed, it is so powerful that
those not accustomed to it must take but very weak doses at first for
a long time, till the system learns to assimilate it; otherwise, it
may even act as a poison. Taken, however, regularly from childhood,
it produces and maintains perfect health, defying all those usual
fevers and diseases that afflict humanity in other parts of the world,
and carrying the body unimpaired in all its functions--accidents,
of course, excepted--into extreme age, without loss of vitality or
strength.

"People do not, however, live for ever; there is one disease and only
one that the 'karina' cannot cure. This is called the 'falloa'; there
is also another name for it signifying the 'don't care sickness.'
Those attacked with it gradually sink, and die painlessly and easily.
This disease, no doubt, must come to all sooner or later; but it is
generally believed that the priests--and they alone--are aware of some
way of so preparing the 'karina,' that they can either cure even the
'falloa,' or keep it at bay for very much longer periods than other
people succeed in doing.

"It is certainly a remarkable fact that throughout the land disease,
in the sense in which we understand it, is unknown. Consequently,
physical pain is almost absent, save in case of physical injury. Nor is
it necessary to be continually taking the preparation of the 'karina.'
When once the system becomes inoculated with it, as it were, it is
sufficient, afterwards, to repeat the doses at long intervals; and a
traveller, as I gather, might take sufficient of the dried plant with
him on his travels to keep him in perfect health for many years in any
part of the world.

"And when, at last, the 'falloa' attacks its victim, it causes neither
pain nor suffering of any kind; only melancholy, and a distaste for
life in general; while its approach is so gradual as often to be
unnoticed.

"There is little doubt that the absence of ordinary diseases exerts
a corresponding effect upon the physical development; and this alone
is sufficient to account for a fact that is very noticeable here,
viz., the beauty of the inhabitants. Both the women and the men are
remarkable in this respect; and probably not in all the rest of the
world put together could so many beautiful women and handsome men be
found as one sees in this small, but strange country; and this applies
to the old, in a measure, as well as to the young generally. Whether it
also applies to the old amongst the priests, one cannot say, for they
seem to keep entirely to themselves.

"As regards these 'priests,' there are two sects in the country, called
respectively the 'Dark,' or 'Black,' and the 'White.'

"The religion of the 'White' priests, or 'Brotherhood,' resembles,
in many respects, that of the Hebrews, save that for 'God' they use
the term 'Great Spirit,' or 'Good,' or 'Almighty' Spirit. These have,
however, now no influence in the country, and have been exiled to
Myrlanda, where they confine themselves to a small 'domain,' have few
followers and very little communication with the general inhabitants.
The chief of these is named Sanaima.

"The chief of the 'Dark Brotherhood'--as they denominate themselves,
and well they deserve their name, from all I hear--is called Coryon;
and he and Sanaima are both popularly supposed to be more than two
thousand years old! But, since both these millenarian gentlemen keep
themselves shut up amongst their own immediate adherents, and seldom
show themselves to the people, it would not be very difficult to keep
up a tradition of this sort without a word of truth to back it. It may
be urged in support of it, however, that we see many going about who,
we are assured, are three, four, or five hundred years old; and these
assert that they have not the true secret of preparing the 'karina';
this being known only to the priests.

"But whatever be the truth as to their longevity, the 'Dark
Brotherhood' seem to be a set of bloodthirsty, licentious tyrants,
ruling the people with a rod of iron, for the king, though nominally
an autocrat, has but little real power; but his rule, so far as it
extends, is mild, and his people appear loyal and well disposed towards
him.

"The real ruler of the land is Coryon, the High Priest of the 'Dark
Brotherhood'; a man who, though never seen beyond the limits of his
own domain, makes his power felt everywhere. What I have heard of him
and his chosen band sounds too atrocious to be true; yet I am assured
I have heard only a part; the whole truth is of such a nature that men
shrink from speaking of it to one another.

"It is said that they have many wives, whom they choose at will
from amongst the daughters of the people; but what becomes of them
afterwards no one knows, for they are never seen again when once they
disappear behind the gates that shut in the domain 'sacred' to the
'Brotherhood.' Further, they lay a 'blood-tax' upon the population
for 'religious sacrifices'; at certain intervals these victims are
selected, it is _said_, by a sort of ballot, and from that moment
vanish like the others, and their fate is never known; or at least no
one professes to know. It is, indeed hinted, that it is too terrible
to be published. One or two who have escaped back to their homes
have, it is averred, died raving mad; their ravings being of so dread
a nature that it could not be determined whether they referred to
scenes actually witnessed, or were the offspring of their madness.
What becomes of the children of these 'priests'--or at least of a
large proportion of them--is also a matter for conjecture. They cannot
well all live, or they would probably overrun the land. It is darkly
whispered that all but a certain definite proportion are sacrificed. At
any rate they are seldom heard of. Zelus, the one Elwood killed, was
an exception, it would appear. He is described as the 'only remaining'
son of Coryon; but what has become of his other children, if any, is
not known. Zelus had set his mind upon taking Ulama from her father
to make her, against her will, his wife--or one of them. Now it is
generally understood that the king and his family, and the members
of his household, are safe from molestation by the 'Brotherhood.'
Therefore, in seeking to force Ulama, Zelus was offending against the
strict law; yet, such was his insolent contempt for all law but his
own will, that he not only designed to bear her off, but, in his rage
at her resistance and the scathing disdain and scorn she showed in her
refusal, he would have killed her. And it is quite certain that, had
he succeeded, he would have been protected by his father, so that no
punishment would have fallen on him.

"If, however, as appears from this, even the king's only child is
not safe from these atrocious wretches, what must be the position of
the common people? As a matter of fact, though they are by nature
cheerful, contented and unselfish, yet over all there seems to hang the
shadow of an ever-present dread, the overpowering, constant fear that
to-morrow or the next day--this day, even, they or some of those they
love, without the slightest warning, may be seized and borne off to an
unknown fate. All the information vouchsafed in such a case is that
the victim has been chosen by the so-called ballot; but it is hinted,
and no doubt believed, that, if one of the priests, or one of their
favourite adherents, happen to cast an approving eye upon a daughter of
the people--be she maiden or wife--the 'ballot' is pretty sure to fall
upon her before very long.

"This is the awful despotism wielded by these 'priests' in the name
of religion. Needless to say, it is not confined to the particulars
stated. If the priests themselves are not much seen in public, some
of their emissaries and followers are continually about, and they
domineer over the people and perpetrate many shameful acts of cruelty
and injustice, in almost all of which they are supported and protected
by those they serve. For, though these wretches are nominally amenable
to the civil law, or to be brought before the king, few, even of the
boldest of their victims, care to risk the after vengeance that they
know would overtake them as the consequence.

"It was these miscreants that the king had in his mind when he insisted
upon giving us an escort during our sojourn here. And, though our
firearms are undoubtedly our best protection, still, as has been
pointed out to us, we have made enemies who are treacherous and
relentless, with fanatical adherents, who mingle with the people and
might stab one of us in the back without warning, were they allowed the
opportunity of coming near us in the guise of ordinary well-disposed or
curious citizens. We have thought it, therefore, only prudent to accept
the proffered guard.

"Of the 'White Brotherhood' one hears little. Sanaima, their chief, is
reputed to be an upright, well-disposed man, who would, if he had his
way, assist the king to put an end to the domination of the other sect
and its human sacrifices and other evils and abominations; but they do
not seem to have the power, or, if they have, they lack the resolution
to take any decided or practical steps to shake off the tyranny of
Coryon. Nor could it be done without plunging the country into a civil
conflict that might last indefinitely and be productive of almost
endless suffering; and the king, as a kind-hearted man, shrinks from
precipitating such a calamity. So Sanaima shuts himself up in his own
domain and gives himself up, it is understood, to abstruse study.

"Turning to another noteworthy and surprising thing--the fact that
these people are acquainted with electricity and the electric
light--it seems that they collect and store it underground in some
way I do not yet understand. But upon all high rocks are placed metal
rods--lightning rods, in fact--and it is asserted that at all times,
day and night, but more particularly when there are clouds around
the mountain, a constant stream of electricity passes down the rods
and is retained and stored in insulated receptacles constructed for
the purpose underground. The effect of this arrangement is that
thunderstorms are unknown here. The armature of lightning rods draws
off all the electricity from the surrounding atmosphere; and, though
thunderstorms are often witnessed in the distance--playing round other
mountains, for instance--yet they never burst over Manoa or Myrlanda.

"On this mountain--Roraima, as we call it--a name, by the way, entirely
unknown to the inhabitants--the city of Manoa and its lake stand at
one end of the great basin that lies within the summit. All around are
terraces of rock rising, one behind the other, till they end in high
wooded crags that form, in fact, the edge of the summit as seen from
outside. Down these crags or cliffs pour numerous cascades that find
their way, eventually, into the lake; whence they issue again as the
great waterfalls that tumble from the summit--or near it--to the base
of the mountain. For though, from a distance, these falls seem to start
from almost the very summit, they, in reality, burst out from the level
of the lake, more than a hundred feet lower than the highest rocks upon
the top of the mountain.

"The rest of the top--apart from the lake and city--is a country of
hill and dale, rocks and woods, very picturesque, and forming, in
places, minor basins, or vales, of considerable extent and beauty,
quite shut off from one another. I estimate the total extent roughly
at a hundred square miles; but I believe Myrlanda covers nearly two
hundred.

"None of the land in Manoa is given up to cultivation, save in the
form of gardens, or orchards, and groves of fruit-bearing trees. The
lower rocky terraces around the lake are beautifully laid out in this
way. Here, are cultivated fruits of every kind. The trees are planted
in such a way as to form shady walks and resting-places; beneath them
are seats and fountains that are always playing, fed by the streams
that rush down at intervals towards the lake. And across these streams
are numerous bridges; some, where the torrents open out on approaching
the lake, are necessarily of considerable width; those on the terraces
above are small rustic structures--but all are ornamental, and some of
exquisite design. Around the terraces flowers grow in profusion, partly
wild and partly cultivated. Wonderful orchids, gloxinias, begonias;
orange-groves covered with flowers and fruit; and gardenias with their
deliciously scented blossoms; with many others that I have never seen
before and have not yet learned the names of.

"The cereal and other crops required are grown in Myrlanda, which is
principally devoted to agriculture; there also there are numbers of
goats, and a kind of sheep, and large quantities of fowls. Pumas, which
are kept as pets in Manoa, are not allowed in Myrlanda, for they would
play sad havoc amongst the flocks and poultry; though, probably, they
live upon them all the same; for the Manoans, being vegetarians, never
eat meat, but give the flesh of their animals to their pets. The latter
include cats, of which there are large numbers; some of most curious
kinds. These two animals, between them, it is said--the puma and the
cat--have cleared the land of all wild animals, including serpents; for
there is no more deadly enemy of serpents--even venomous ones--than the
cat; and the puma will attack and overcome larger non-venomous snakes.

"No one, to see these latter great animals playing continually with
the children of their masters--as may be witnessed here all day
long--would think they were naturally of such bloodthirsty instincts.
It has been said of pumas that, with the possible exception of some
kinds of monkeys, they are the most playful animals in existence. One
can certainly see ample evidence of this in Manoa, for the creatures,
whether large or small, old or young, seem ever ready to start a game
of romps with whomever they can get to indulge them--whether little
folk or their grown-up elders.

"The large swans that swim about on the lake, though very tame,
can scarcely be regarded as pets, though they are frequently to be
seen docilely drawing a small boat about; or a team of them will be
harnessed to a vessel of larger size. They get their own living
among the fish in the lake, and seem able to hold their own with the
pumas. I am told that this comes about from the fact that the young
pumas, being often foolish enough to attack them in the water, meet
with such treatment that--if they succeed in escaping drowning--they
ever afterward leave the birds alone. These swans make their nests and
rear their young on some islands that lie out near the centre of the
lake. Often, towards night, when the sun has perhaps set for the day
on the lake and the country surrounding it, these birds may be seen in
small flocks circling and whirling in the air, and presenting a very
beautiful sight as they rise out of the shadow, and the rays of the
setting sun light up their plumage. These are undoubtedly the 'white
eagles' that are asserted by the Indians to be the 'guardians of the
lake' on the top of Roraima.

"Myrlanda is honeycombed with mines, but hardly any are at present
worked, the demand for their products having practically ceased; and
such large stocks have accumulated from former workings that I am told
they are not likely to be reopened for many years. So far, I have only
partially inspected the museums. They are more surprising than even
the people, for they speak plainly of a wonderful past history. Here
are many strange inventions and machines, the very meaning and use of
which are now but a matter of conjecture. They contain, too, stands
of arms--spears, javelins, swords, daggers, shields, bows and arrows,
etc., as well as suits of beautifully wrought chain armour--sufficient
to fit out a small army. Most of these are mounted in gold, and many
are ornamented with jewels. All are kept bright and in admirable order.

"The statues are surprising specimens of art, as are the bas-reliefs
with which most of the buildings are embellished. Yet there are now no
sculptors here, nor any painters. There are potters, but their work is
inferior to specimens preserved in the museums. In many other branches
of manufacture, also, the artificers of to-day are evidently unskilful
as compared with those of former times.

"In the museums are also preserved manuscripts of great antiquity,
and interesting as throwing light on the past history of the nation.
Many of the nobles and chief people can write and read; but, printing
being unknown, their opportunities of keeping up such accomplishments
are necessarily very limited. The materials used for dress are mostly
silk--obtained from silkworms--wool, and linen; the last being obtained
from a fibre resembling flax. In the manufacture of these materials
into fabrics the Manoans are particularly skilful; especially in
working or embroidering upon them all kinds of new and quaint designs.
Their boats, too, that float about the lake, are exquisite models; so
that one can quite believe that the nation was once, as they declare, a
maritime people, with fleets of ships, or, at least, large vessels of
some kind. In the museums, by way of confirmation, are pictures--very
cleverly executed works--of naval battles; and, in these, large vessels
with two and three masts are represented.

"It is worthy of remark that in all these pictures representing
battle-pieces--and these are many--none but white people are depicted.
That different races intermingled in the fighting is indubitable; but
the difference consists in dress and other details; not in the colour
of their skins.

"It is a tradition of the Manoans that they formerly ruled over 'the
whole world.' This may be taken to imply either the whole continent of
America, or a large portion of it; but they knew nothing, formerly, of
black or red races; and their archives bear this out--their pictures,
perhaps, more forcibly than anything else.

"As regards the buildings, their architectural magnificence is
undeniable--almost, indeed, defies description. On many structures gold
has been freely employed in the roofing, and for other purposes where
we should employ lead or iron. They say the gold came chiefly from
Myrlanda, and certain neighbouring 'islands'--_i.e._, mountains--from
which they are now isolated. Gold cornices, and embellishments, of
every conceivable shape and form, are commonly used for outside
decorations; the very conduits to carry off water being often of gold
or an amalgam consisting largely of that metal, and wrought into
elaborate designs. Indeed, both iron and tin--and lead also--seem to
have been much more sparingly employed than gold and silver. Iron seems
to have been used only where extra strength and weight were required,
and, in the form of steel, for weapons, or for common utensils, tools,
etc.; and of copper there is very little anywhere to be seen. Silver,
even, is less common in heavy decorative metal work than is solid gold.

"Thus the tales that Sir Walter Raleigh heard of the splendours of the
ancient city of Manoa--or El Dorado--and that for many hundreds of
years since have been regarded as fables, appear to have been based,
after all, upon actual fact."




CHAPTER XVI.

LEONARD AND ULAMA.


"How I should like to see this wondrous outside world that you come
from!" said Ulama dreamily. "The more you tell me of it, the more you
whet my curiosity, and the more I long to see its marvels for myself."

"And yet," was Elwood's answer, "nowhere will you find so marvellously
beautiful a scene as that which now surrounds us. I have travelled a
good deal myself; and my friend Jack much more; and Monella, where has
he not been? He seems to have visited every corner of the world! Yet
he said to me, but yesterday, that he thought this the fairest spot on
earth; and in this Jack agrees, so far as his experience extends.

"Since I first came here I have looked upon it from many points of
view; from the water, as the boat drifts from one side to the other;
from different places round the shore; from various spots on the rocky
terraces above; and these different views I have seen under all the
shifting effects of sunlight, moonlight, and in the mountain mist. Yet
do I find myself unable to decide which I like the best. Whatever I
do, wherever I happen to be, I see constantly some fresh enchantment,
some new charm, some effect at once unexpected and delightful; till I
strive in vain to make up my mind which I admire the most."

It was about a week after the arrival in the city of the three
travellers; and Ulama and Leonard were seated in a favourite boat in
which the princess was wont to spend a large portion of her time.
It was, really, a small barge, of curious but graceful design and
elaborate decoration. Over the after part was a white and light-blue
awning; the bow ran up in the shape of a bird with out-stretched wings
wrought in gold and silver, and the stern was fashioned like a fish
with scales of blue and gold, its tail being movable, and running down
below the water-line to form the rudder. Upon the sides provision was
made for several oars; but this morning Ulama and Elwood had put off
alone, content that the boat should drift wherever the slight air or
current might direct.

Truly Leonard had not over-rated the beauty of the scene around them;
scarce indeed would it be possible to do so. The water was a dazzling
blue, yet so clear and limpid that it seemed more like a film of tinted
air than water, so that the eye could pierce to great depths where
many strange creatures could be seen. The sun, high in the sky, poured
down its rays upon the buildings and the trees, in some parts lighting
up only the tops and throwing purple shadows over the rest; in other
places, touches of vivid green contrasted with the pink-white tints of
the faces of the buildings; the whole quivering in the shimmering haze
that conveys an idea of unsubstantiality in what one sees--a suggestion
that it may be only a mirage that a passing breeze may dissipate.

Ulama was leaning in contented listlessness over the boat's side,
her hand playing idly in the water. On the shapely arm, bare to the
elbow, was a plain gold band in which was set a single diamond that
even crowned heads might have envied. It flashed and sparkled in the
sunlight with dazzling fire and power. A gold fillet, set with another
matchless diamond, confined her hair, which fell loosely in wavy
tresses round her shoulders. Her dress was of finest work, its texture
thin as gossamer; pure white with here and there a silken knot of blue.
It was gathered into her waist by a golden zone whose clasp was hidden
by another and even larger diamond. No other style of dress could have
so well set off the perfect symmetry and beauty of her figure. Thus,
bending in unconscious ease over the boat's side, the young girl formed
one of the rarest models of maidenly grace and loveliness that could
that morning have been found amongst Eve's daughters.

Yet, probably, to most observers, the purity and sweetness that looked
out from her soft, wistful eyes would have seemed the chief and most
attractive charm of this radiant maiden of the 'city of the clouds.'
And her gentle, lustrous eyes were the index of the pure and loving
soul within.

No wonder, therefore, that she was, beyond compare, the best loved, the
most honoured person in the land.

She was her father's chief, almost his only, joy. Apart from her he
found but little that gave him happiness. At the same time he loved
his people and honestly desired to do his best for them; and gladly
would he have made great sacrifices to bring about their emancipation
from the priestly tyranny that oppressed them. But he shrank from the
extreme step of precipitating a civil war; yet the alternative of
allowing things to take their course and continue in the old groove
grieved him deeply; so much so that his distress had begun to take the
form of settled melancholy. His courtiers, who were devoted to him,
noticing this, themselves became a prey to anxious misgivings, fearing
in it the first symptoms of the sole incurable disease they knew--that
which they termed the 'falloa.'

Leonard's last words had started a fresh train of thought in the young
girl's mind, and presently she spoke again.

"Do you then mean that you would fain pass your life with us; you to
whom the great world beyond is known, with all its endless interest?
It seems strange that! Methinks that, were I in your place, I should
deem life here but colourless and childish. For me, certainly, it has
sufficed. I have a father who loves me dearly--dotes on me; my mother I
never knew. She died when I was very young. I have kind friends around
me whom I love, and who love me, and who seem to think far more of me
than I deserve. And, were it not for the sadness in the land, I think
I should be very happy; certainly I should be contented. Yet, now
that you have told me of a spacious world beyond, full of all sorts
of mysteries and unheard-of marvels, I confess I should like to see
something of it."

"To do so would bring you no lasting pleasure," Leonard answered. "If
we--if I--who have looked upon these things, have been brought up
amongst them, if I am weary of them, and never care to see them more,
and would spend the remainder of my life here, for you they would have
no attractions."

Ulama glanced up shyly at him from under her long lashes.

"But are you--would you?" she asked with a slight blush. "Would you
truly like to stay here all your life--never to go back to your own
land?"

"Yes! I _do_ mean that!" And there was a fervid glow in Leonard's
countenance. "All my life I have had a restlessness impelling me to
seek--I knew not what--in distant lands. All my life I have had strange
dreams and visions; not only in the stillness of the night, but also
amidst the busy hum of day, and in all these one form was ever present;
it hovered round me so that I could almost see and touch it. But--and
now comes the strange part of it--that first day I set eyes on you, the
moment you drew near, I saw in you the living image of her who had been
the central figure of my waking visions, and held sweet converse with
me while I slept. Then--when my eyes met yours--I understood it all!
I knew then what had led me hither; what it was I had unconsciously
been seeking, and wherefore I had been restless and unsatisfied at
home. I knew that in you I had discovered all I craved for--the sweet
fulfilment of my soul's desire. And then--then--I saw you in the grasp
of one who would have slain you! And my heart stood still, for I knew
that, unless my hand were steady and my eye unerring, in striving to
save your life I might destroy it. Oh, think, think what must have been
my anguish! Think, how----Ah! never will you know a tenth of what I
suffered in that brief space; or my relief and thankfulness when I saw
him fall, and you stand scatheless!"

The young girl looked shyly at him; then, noting the love-light in his
eyes, and the glowing flush upon his cheeks, the while he had poured
out all that he had felt for her, an answering blush stole over her
own fair cheek; while a coy, dainty little smile seemed to flit airily
around her mouth, setting into little dimples first here then there;
in like manner as a ray of light, reflected from a mirror, will dance
coquettishly to and fro in obedience to the hand that moves the glass.

There was silence for a space, she gazing downwards at the water, but
now and then stealing a shy glance at her companion.

Then another line of thought passed over her mind and shadowed her face
for a moment.

"I wonder," she said with touching innocence, "what people see in me to
like so much? I fear it is not always well that this should be. It was
that which led--Zelus"--she shivered at the name--"to thrust himself
upon, and at last threaten me, and has placed you in danger for having
slain him. It is very strange! To like, to love, should mean naught but
happiness and loving-kindness and innocent delight; yet here it has led
a man to attempt an awful crime, and has placed others in great peril."

"It was not _love_ on that man's part," said Leonard, savagely, between
his teeth. "At least, not the sort of love that urged _me_ on, that has
guided me--even as the unwinding of a clue leads the traveller through
the maze--to the side of her I loved and worshipped in my visions. Mine
is not the love that could ever do its object hurt; that could ever----"

He paused abruptly, seeing her glance up at him with a look of wonder
on her face.

"You love me?" she exclaimed. "But that is past believing! 'Tis but a
few days since you first saw me. You cannot know what I am really like!
How then can you _love_ me? I love my father because he has cared for
me and loved me all my life; I love Zonella--and--and--other friends,
because I have known them for so long, and they have been kind and good
to me. How can you yet tell that you will love me? Perchance when you
know me better you may even come to hate me."

"Oh! Ulama! What is that you say?" he said impetuously. "You cannot
mean it! You are playing with me! But it is cruel play! The love I mean
is not such as the slow growth of a child's affection for a parent
or a girl-friend. It is a swift, resistless passion, that centres on
one being above all others in the world, and says, 'This one only do
I love; this one possesses all my heart and soul! From this one I can
never swerve--my love will end only when my heart no longer beats; I
cannot live without it.' Such a love bursts forth spontaneously from
the heart, as does a tiny spring from the earth's bosom and that, when
once it has found vent, for ever bubbles up fresh and clear and pure,
and, commencing in a little rill, increases to a torrent whose force no
power can stem. _That_ is the love I mean; and 'tis such a love I bear
for you, Ulama. Can you not understand something of all this?"

"I know not," replied the maiden in a low voice, and glancing timidly
at him. "You frighten me a little--or you would, but that I like you
too well to feel afraid of you--but--I have no knowledge of such love
as you describe."

"But, you have _heard_ of a love that far exceeds mere friendship--far
stronger than affection?"

"Y-es. I have _heard_ of it; and--ridiculed it as fiction. Yet--if
you affirm its truth, and in your own person have experienced it--I
must fain believe you, for I know you would not say what is not true.
But"--here she sagely shook her head--"though my ears receive your
words, the time has not yet come when they have reached my heart."

Leonard seized her hand.

"But, meanwhile, I have not offended you, Ulama?" he asked
entreatingly. "You will let me love you? Indeed, I am powerless to help
it. And you will try to--to--like me--ah, you have said you _do_ like
me already. Will you not try to love me a little?"

"Nay," she frankly answered, "you would not surely have me _try_? What
sort of love would that be that we had to _try_ to bring into being--to
force upon an unresponsive heart? You have said that it should burst
forth spontaneously. I scarcely understand when you speak thus."

Leonard sighed.

"You are right, Ulama, as you ever are; and I am wrong; but my love
makes me impatient. I will not expect too much of you. I will wait with
such content as is in me to command until your gentle heart shall beat
in unison with mine; and something in me tells me that one day it will."

Just then they heard the voice of some one calling to them, and,
looking round, they saw Jack Templemore and Zonella, with several
others, coming towards them in another boat.

When they were within speaking distance, Jack said that Monella had
sent him to tell Leonard he wished to speak to him; Leonard accordingly
took up the oars and rowed the barge slowly to shore. There he left
Ulama with the party, and proceeded in search of Monella who, he had
been told, was awaiting him upon a terrace that overlooked the lake.

Here Leonard found him seated with a field-glass in his hand. Monella
turned and looked searchingly at the young man, who felt himself
colouring under the other's glance.

"I love not to seem to spy upon your acts, my son," Monella began
gravely, "but when I caught sight of you in yonder boat holding the
hand of the princess, the daughter of the king, who is our kind and
gracious host, I could not well do otherwise than seek a talk with
you. I fear you have not well considered what you do."

At this rebuke Leonard coloured up still more, albeit the words were
spoken with evident kindness. For that very reason, probably, they sank
the deeper. It was the first time anything savouring of reproof to him
had fallen from Monella's lips; and, up to that moment, its possibility
had seemed remote; and now the young man deeply felt the fact that the
other should have thought it necessary.

"I think I know what you would say," he answered in a low voice. "I
feel I have been wrong--guilty of thoughtlessness, presumption, and
seemingly of breach of confidence. I understand what is in your mind.
Yet let me say at once that so far little--practically nothing--has
been said, and nothing more shall be--unless--you can tell me I dare
hope. But oh, my good friend, you who have treated me always as a son,
and shown such sympathy and kindness towards me--who have known of my
half-formed aspirations, and the ideas that led me on and ended in my
coming here, and encouraged me in those ideas--who have learned that in
the king's daughter I have found the living embodiment of the central
figure of all my dreamings--_you_ surely will not now turn upon me and
tell me I must stifle all my feelings, and--give--up--the hopes--that
had arisen--in my heart?" And Leonard sank wearily into a seat.

Then, for the first time realising his actual position, how next
to impossible it was that the king would regard with favour his
pretensions, he placed his hands before his face and groaned aloud.

Monella rose, and, going to him, laid his hand kindly upon his
shoulder.

"I might bring all the arguments and platitudes of the 'worldly-wise'
to bear on you," he said, "but I forbear; and I know they will not
weigh with you. Moreover, it is undeniable that the circumstances are
unusual and unlooked-for. But they do not justify you in forgetting
what you owe to a kingly host and--I may add--to others; to us, your
friends, for instance. You know, also, that our position here is
critical; there is trouble brewing in the land. If the king should
have reason to believe that one of us has abused his confidence in
one matter, he may lose his trust in all, as touching other, and far
more weighty matters--matters that may affect even his own personal
security; to say nothing of our own lives, and those of many of his
subjects. Therefore----"

Leonard sprang up and looked at him imploringly.

"For pity's sake say no more," he said, "or I shall begin to hate
myself. I understand--only too well. Trust me--if you will; if you feel
you can; if you have not lost confidence. You shall not have further
reason for complaint."

Monella took Leonard's hand in his and pressed it affectionately.

"'Tis well, my son," he said. "I have full confidence, and will trust
you. And you, on your side, must trust me. I may have opportunity to
sound the king, and, if it so happen, you may count on me to say and
do all that my friendship for you may dictate--and that will not be a
little."

Leonard wrung the other's hand and tried to thank him, but a burst of
emotion overcame him, and he turned away. When he again looked round he
was alone.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE FIGHT ON THE HILLSIDE.


It had become the custom of the two young men to go every morning,
when the atmosphere was clear, to a height at one end of the valley,
from which a view could be obtained over the whole country surrounding
that end of Roraima. The spot was a level table of rock under a
picturesque group of fir-trees--for on the upper cliffs fir-trees were
numerous--and from it, looking in the direction farthest from the
mountain, the view was grand in the extreme; while, on the other side
of them was the great valley or basin in which lay the lake and the
city of Manoa.

It would be but labour lost to attempt to give an adequate idea of the
prospect over which the eye could travel on a clear day, when one stood
upon this giddy height. It extended to an almost illimitable distance;
for, when one looked beyond the surrounding mountains of the Roraima
range, there were no more hills to break the view till it reached the
far distant Andes, had these been visible. Indeed, it was said that
they _were_ visible on a few days in the year; but, if that were so,
it would perhaps be rather as an effect in the nature of a mirage than
what is usually understood by an actual view of the far-away mountains.
But nearer at hand, in other directions were mountain ridges and
summits in seemingly endless succession, piled up in extraordinary
confusion. From Roraima, as the highest of all, one could look down,
to some extent, upon the others. Myrlanda was upon the other side, but
Marima, and others of the strange group, lay before the eye, and one
could see the woods and lakes upon their summits; but enough could
not be seen to enable the spectator to decide whether they might be
inhabited or not.

The beauty of the expanse of tropical vegetation immediately below was
indeed marvellous. Here the explorers gazed down upon the tops of the
trees of the gloomy forest that girdled the mountain (though not that
part through which they had made their way with so much wearying, but
dogged perseverance), and lo! it was a veritable garden of flowers of
brilliant hue! For the trees beneath which they had crept, like ants
among the stems of a field of clover, were gorgeous above in their
display of blossoms, while shutting out the light from those who walked
below.

Here and there, amid the green, the great cascades and torrents from
the mountain side dashed impetuously from rock to rock; the streams
that were in fact some of the feeders of the greatest of all rivers,
the mighty Amazon; that river of wondrous mysteries, that pursues its
course of four thousand miles through the plains of Brazil, and finds
its way round at last into the Atlantic, there to hurl the volume of
its waters with such force into the sea, that even the ocean waters are
pushed aside to make a path for them hundreds of miles from land!

Here, upon the table of rock, in full view of one of the grandest and
most eloquent natural panoramas it is possible for the mind of man
to conceive, Leonard and Templemore stood the morning following the
former's interview with Monella, looking out upon the scene. A high
wind, of bracing and exhilarating freshness, blew in their faces,
rushed with a roar through the branches above them, swaying the great
trees to and fro, and then, seeming to tear off across the valley at
one leap, continued its wild course amongst the trees on the heights
that lined the further side. Leonard, on turning to look across the
lake, saw Ergalon advancing up the slope and making signs to him. He
drew Jack's attention to the signals, and they both descended the
terraces of rock below to meet him. Here all was quiet; they were
sheltered from the gusts of wind; the roar of the gale no longer met
their ears.

All the time they had been in the city they had had a guard. It
consisted of a file of soldiers with an officer, and they followed the
two young men in all their walks, movements, journeys, never thrusting
themselves on their attention, yet always ready to assist and defend
them, if occasion should arise. Monella, also, had an escort whenever
he went out. He had particularly enjoined on the other two never to
stir abroad without their rifles, and this injunction, though they did
not always see its necessity, they implicitly observed.

They had not seen much of Ergalon of late; he had attached himself
more particularly to Monella, and had, in fact, become his particular
attendant. Monella had trusted him so far as to explain to him
something of the secrets of the firearms, and had instructed him in
the loading of them in case circumstances should arise in which his
assistance might be needed. Accordingly, when Leonard saw him coming up
the hillside and signifying that he wished to speak to them, he at once
called Templemore and left the ledge where they had been standing.

Soon they saw their guard approaching with Ergalon in advance of them,
and, following them, Monella, who came on leisurely from ledge to
ledge, occasionally giving a glance behind him.

The hillside was marked out in terraces, or tables of rock, most of
them covered with greensward and fringed at the sides with belts of
trees. Ergalon, who had taken his stand below, made signs to the two
to come down to him, and, when they had descended within hearing, he
addressed them.

"The lord Monella has sent me to warn you to await him here and to be
ready for a contest. There is trouble afoot."

"But why wait here?" asked Jack. "We will go down to him at once."

Ergalon shook his head.

"No," he said. "He particularly desired that you would await him here."

"So be it; if you are sure you rightly understood him. But tell us,
friend Ergalon, what all this means."

Ergalon explained that Coryon had unexpectedly dispatched a large
force of his soldiers to capture the three strangers. They had hoped
to surprise them without giving time for others of the king's soldiers
to lend their aid. But he (Ergalon) had, through a former comrade who
was still one of Coryon's people, attained intimation of the intended
movement, and had been able thus to warn Monella.

"So the lord Monella," he explained, "sent on your guard in advance,
and then himself walked up the hill towards you that they might see
him. Thus he hoped to draw Coryon's people away from the palace and the
houses to this place, where, he says, it will be better to make a stand
and fight them, since thus no other persons will be injured in the
encounter."

It was strange, but all who spoke of Monella, or to him, gave him some
title of honour or respect. Ergalon called him 'lord.' Even Dakla,
at the meeting in the king's council chamber--spite of his insolent
swagger towards the king--had been awed by this man's look into
addressing him by the equivalent in their language of 'sir.'

"How many are there of them?" asked Jack.

"Oh, a hundred--or perhaps more. But the lord Monella has said their
number matters not; and he sent me to the king to beg that none of his
soldiers should interfere. 'They would only be in the way,' he said.
He sent these extra things for you. See." And he showed a parcel of
cartridges he had brought with him.

"Good," said Jack. "He is quite right. That's all we wanted; we can
answer for the rest. More soldiers would only be in the way; and some
of them would be pretty sure to get hurt, if not killed outright--and
all for nothing. I think I see Monella's idea. It is"--turning to
Elwood--"to take up our position here and shoot them down as they come
across this wide terrace just below us. Not a man of them will ever
cross that stretch alive."

"Here are your guards," observed Ergalon. "The lord Monella desired
that you should place them somewhere where they would be out of the
way, but within call."

"Let them get on to this next ledge, then, just behind us. There they
will have a fine view of everything. Did these people think to surprise
us, do you think, friend Ergalon?"

"No doubt. Your habit of coming here of a morning has been noted, I
suspect, and they had intended, I imagine, to creep round and get up
through the woods unseen. But the lord Monella, being warned by me,
went up on a high rock, where he could see them in the distance; when
they saw they were observed by him, they gave up that plan and came
straight on."

"I see. Well, we owe you something for having warned us, friend."

"It is nothing," Ergalon answered simply. "My life was forfeited that
day, and you spared me; and through the lord Monella and the princess,
I gained the king's pardon. I owe you all my service."

By this time the guards and their officer had arrived, and were placed
by Ergalon on a terrace above and behind that on which the two were
standing.

"We like it not, this mode of yours--putting us in the background, out
of danger, while you stand up in front," observed the officer; "we
consent only because the lord Monella so desires it. They are many, but
we should not shrink; and others from the king's palace would soon come
to our assistance."

"Yes, yes, good Abla. We have no misgivings of your courage. But you
could do no good with so few men--they are more than ten to one, I
hear--and your men would but impede us. Besides, it will give them a
lesson for the future, if we deal with them ourselves, unaided."

Abla bowed and walked away unwillingly, as one who is bound to obey
orders, but does so against his will.

Monella now came in view, and was soon standing by their side. After a
few words of explanation, he said gravely,

"They thought to have surprised us all three up here; but, when they
saw they had failed in that, they took a bold course and came straight
on. Now that means, in effect, an open challenge to the king. It
means," he continued with increased earnestness, "civil war. Civil war,
you understand, has therefore broken out in the land--unless we nip it
in the bud, _here, now_, as we can, if we show no untimely hesitation.
These men are scoundrels of the serpent's brood; cruel, bloodthirsty
tools of the human fiends behind them. They deserve no mercy, no
consideration. Let none be shown to them! My plan is simply to shoot
them down the instant they appear on that ledge below us. They _must_
climb up in front; there is no way round it, nor any means of getting
to the height above us. Therefore, they must cross that piece of open
ground. One word more. The chief, Dakla, leads them. Do not fire at
him. I wish to take him alive, if possible; he will make our best
ambassador hereafter."

Under such conditions the battle could not be a long one. Monella had
chosen his ground skilfully, so as to make the utmost of the advantage
firearms gave him. The black-coated myrmidons of Coryon scaled the
fatal terrace only to be shot down the moment that they came in sight.
There were only four or five places where they could climb up and, at
these, not more than two men could pass together. Those who reached the
top and escaped a bullet, turned back when they heard the explosions of
the firearms, saw the flashes and the smoke, saw also their comrades
fall. Others of those below who could see nothing of what was going on,
swarmed up in their places, only to fall or turn back at once in like
manner; till, in a short time, every man had been up and witnessed the
ghastly sight of the dead and wounded lying around, and had satisfied
himself that not one could cross that level piece of rock to come near
their foes. Finally, the survivors were all seized with panic when one
of the last to show his head above the ridge came back crying out that
"the white demons were coming down after them." At this, all those who
were unhurt turned and fled. But many had fallen, dead or wounded, and
lay at the foot of the rock they had climbed up only to be instantly
shot down. Above, on the terrace itself, but at one side, stood Dakla
and one of his subordinates. These had been amongst the first to appear
above the ledge, and had moved aside to let the men form into line up
on the rock; but now they were left alone, and, when Monella quietly
descended from the rock above, they had the mortification of seeing all
their men who were capable of running disappear in frantic terror down
the hillside.

Then he who stood by Dakla made a rush at Monella with uplifted sword,
thinking, since he seemed to be unarmed, that he would fall an easy
prey; but the man fell with a pistol ball in his breast ere he had gone
half way to meet Monella.

"Now yield, Dakla," Monella called to the other. "It is useless either
to fight or run."

"We will see to that," Dakla exclaimed savagely. "If thou be man, and
not demon, this sword shall find thine heart." And he too made a sudden
rush. But, before he had gone three yards, the sword flew from his hand
and his arm dropped useless by his side. Monella had shot him in the
arm.

"Thou see'st," he said coldly, as he now approached the crestfallen
chief, "how ill-advised thou hast been not to give heed to all my
warnings. I could have slain thee earlier in the fight; I could have
killed thee now, as I did thy friend there; but I have spared thy life.
It is not for thine own sake, but that thou mayest bear a message to
thy master, and witness to him of that which thou hast seen and warn
him once more of the futility of warring against us, the allies of the
king. Dost thou understand?"

The other cast a murderous scowl upon Monella, but made no answer for
a moment. Then, after reflection, he said in a dogged, surly tone,

"So be it. But thou must give thy message quickly and let me go; for
thou hast hurt me sore and the blood flows fast----"

"We will see to thy wound," Monella replied composedly. "Let me bind it
up till we get to the king's palace; there it shall be seen to farther."

And Dakla, reluctantly, and with an ill grace, submitted to have his
wound bound up by his enemy, who, before commencing, took away the
other's dagger.

"I cannot trust thee with these playthings," he observed. "Thou art of
the wolf tribe, Dakla."

Meanwhile, the officer and men of their guard had come down to the
lower terrace, with Templemore and Elwood, and were looking in awe and
horror upon the outcome of the fight--if so one-sided an encounter
could be so called. On Monella and the two young men they gazed in
wonder; and, gradually, they drew away from them in fear, from that
moment treating them with even greater deference than before.

Monella despatched Abla to summon more soldiers from the king's palace
to bring down the dead and wounded; and himself set about attending to
the latter, first handing Dakla over to Templemore.

"Look you!" said Jack to his prisoner, "if you attempt to escape, I
shall not kill you, but hurt your other arm; and, if that does not stop
you, I shall hurt your leg, and I know that that _will_. Do you follow
me?"

Dakla nodded a sour assent; then stood looking with evident surprise at
the trouble Monella was now taking with some of his late enemies. Such
singular behaviour he did not understand, and he shrugged his shoulders
in contempt.

When, after a time, more soldiers, with some officers, arrived upon
the scene, these were at once set to work to bear the dead and wounded
down the hill. Monella followed with his friends and Dakla. The noise
of the firing had brought out great crowds of people, who were now
massed about the palace waiting to receive them. They had watched the
precipitate flight of the survivors of the soldiers of Coryon, and
rejoiced greatly at their defeat. But, when they saw the dead and
wounded, and that Dakla was himself a prisoner, and heard that not one
had been hurt upon the other side, their astonishment was complete.

The king himself, with some of his ministers and officials, came out
to meet the victors; and his gratitude and emotion, when he noted all
these things and greeted Monella and his friends, were profuse and
heartfelt.

"Ye have indeed rendered us a service," he exclaimed, "and taught
Coryon a lesson he will do well to take to heart. I feared me greatly
that harm would come to ye, and that war would follow in the land."

"Nay, we have laid the dogs of war, I trust, at any rate, for the
present," Monella returned, with a grave smile. "They will not attack
us further, I opine, nor brave thee in the future in this rebellious
fashion."

Then they entered the palace, and Ulama came forward to welcome them,
with Zonella and many more.

"We have been in such trouble about you," she said, the tears standing
in her tender eyes, "ever since they told us that over a hundred of
Coryon's people had gone up the rocks to take you. And we heard the
noise of the thunder-wands, and were in great fear, till they told us
that your enemies were fleeing. Then we looked out and saw them rushing
madly down the hill, throwing away their spears, and their helmets, and
even fighting one another in their haste to scramble down the rocks.
Then Abla came and told us you were all safe, and then----"

"Then," said Zonella, "you sat down and wept." And at that Ulama
laughed.

"I fear it is true," she said.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE LEGEND OF MELLENDA.


Monella's anticipations of what would follow the severe lesson they had
given Coryon's followers turned out to be well founded. For when Dakla,
with his arm in a sling, revisited his master, bearing a message from
the king, the conditions offered were accepted.

Dakla had been straightly charged that these terms would have to be
submitted to; if not that his master and all his followers would be
starved into submission. They would be confined to their own colony,
supplies of food refused, and any of their number leaving their retreat
would be killed at sight.

The conditions imposed were that not merely the three strangers, but
all the 'lay' inhabitants were to be free from molestation by Coryon's
people; and that no more 'blood-tax' was to be levied.

After many journeys to and fro, and much delay, Dakla at last announced
that Coryon agreed to the conditions for a time--for four months. After
that, their great festival would be coming on, and--well, time would
show.

"It is only a truce," said Monella, with a sigh, to his two young
friends. "I would it had been permanent; but it will give us time,
and the opportunity of shaping out our course. The people will have a
respite from the terrible fear that now is ever with them; and, short
of engaging in a protracted civil conflict, for which the people are
not yet prepared, I see not what better could have been arranged."

They were thus now able to move about more freely, and without a
guard; their rifles, too, could be left behind when they went abroad;
though Monella had counselled that they should always carry their
revolvers; for he feared they were not altogether safe from treachery,
or from some fanatical outbreak on the part of certain of the priests'
adherents.

Thus Templemore and Elwood were now able to mingle more freely with the
populace and to see more of their social life. And, wherever they went,
they were well received, and treated with both confidence and respect.
They visited the houses of people of all classes, from the palaces of
the nobles to the dwellings of the peasantry, if so the lower classes
might be called. There were, however, no poor in the country, in the
ordinary sense of the word. The crops grown were supplied to all
alike; every one had plenty to eat, and plenty of clothes to wear, and
well-built houses to live in. And, beyond these requisites, there was
little in the land to pine for. There were forests, and from these
all were free to cut wood for fuel; the electric light was laid on
to all alike. The water they required they supplied themselves with
from the lake, or from one or other of the streams that everywhere
gushed forth from the rocks above. Of shops there were none; but
there was a market-place, and a sort of market or exchange was held
there once a week. Even this, however, was falling into disuse. There
was a currency; and there were many kinds of coins; but they were
seldom used. They were of ancient make and were preserved rather as
curiosities, seemingly, than for use. There was so little that the
people wanted, either to buy or sell, that a simple system of barter
sufficed for practically all their needs.

Elwood and Templemore, as they came to know all these things, and
gained experience of the simple good-nature of the people, felt
increased indignation and resentment against the priests. They saw that
the horrible tyranny of these men had turned a land that might have
been a realm of perfect peace and goodwill, into one where constant
dread and hopeless misery and suffering had become so common, that all
seemed helplessly resigned to it.

One day, when the two were in a boat with Ulama and Zonella, Kalaima,
and others, Templemore, who had been talking of these matters, asked
whether the state of things they had seen had been of long duration.

The reply came from Zonella.

"Ever since the time of the great Mellenda. So we are told. It is
the punishment sent by the Great Spirit upon the people for their
ingratitude to him."

"And who was Mellenda?" asked Elwood.

"What! You ask who was Mellenda? But I forgot; of course, you have not
been here very long, and cannot know our history and legends."

"I have been prying about more in your museums than has my friend,"
Jack observed, "and I have learned something of Mellenda. But I know
nothing of any legend. Pray let us hear it."

"Yes, tell us about it," Leonard urged. "I like fine old legends and
tales of wonder."

"Ask the princess to tell you."

"No, no, Zonella," Ulama interposed. "You began it; you finish it.
Besides, you are more learned in such things than I am."

"Very well," Zonella said resignedly. "I can only give it as I know
it. If you want further details, you must go to the museum, or ask
Colenna, the High Chamberlain, who is a very learned man. Only I do
not wish you to ridicule it"--this to the two young men--"for, though
I call it a legend, yet it is history; and all our people implicitly
believe it. You could not offend them more than by treating it lightly
or affecting to disbelieve it. I give _you_ that as a caution, more
particularly," she added, looking mischievously at Jack, "for I know
that you are very much inclined to scepticism in such things."

"I will promise to be very good, and to make no frivolous remarks," was
Jack's laughing answer.

"Then you must know," Zonella began, "that we deem Mellenda the
greatest of our kings; that is, of our later kings. Our ancient line
of kings before him had made Manoa the greatest, the most powerful,
and the richest country of the world. These mountains that you have
seen around us were all islands in a great lake--the lake of Parima.
Its waters extended to the great mountains that we can sometimes see
from the highest points about Manoa--far, far away. But over those, and
over lands in every direction, our nation held sway. These islands were
our chief fastnesses, and this one, Manoa, being the highest and the
most naturally favoured of them all, was the seat of government, and
its city was the capital to which were brought all the wealth and the
most valued productions of the other countries that formed part of its
empire.

"But, after many mighty kings had lived and died, a weakness seemed to
fall upon the people. They were defeated in battle; provinces revolted,
and many distant parts of the empire were lost, passing under other
kings. At that time, it is said, our kings and nobles and chiefs among
the nation were too much given to feasting and enjoyment; and, it is
declared, they began cruelly to oppress the weaker of the people. And a
change came over the religion. Up to then all had worshipped only one
Great Spirit, who was said to be a good Spirit--the great ruler of all
spirits, in fact, and his priests were called 'Children of the Light.'
Their rule--what they taught--was gentle; it is recorded that they
were men of peace and of great--very, very great--wisdom. But another
religion had been introduced, coming, it is believed, from some of the
lands that had been conquered; and this was the exact opposite of the
old one. Its votaries and high priests called themselves 'Children of
the Night'; they worshipped, not one God, but many strange and terrible
gods; their priests, also, were thought to possess great wisdom, but
of an evil kind. They taught that there was but one way to escape the
power of the Spirits of Darkness, and that was by propitiating them by
constant sacrifices; and they killed many people at their festivals to
give them to their gods.

"Then Mellenda came to the throne. He was the only son of the last of
the ancient line of kings. While young he had travelled far and gained
much knowledge in strange countries; and he had already, as general
of some of his father's armies, defeated the enemies of the country,
and regained some of the lost provinces. His father was killed in
battle, and Mellenda immediately set about plans for reviving the old
power and recovering the former empire of the nation. He taught, too,
that the White religion was the true religion, and he made endeavours
to put down the other. But he was absent for long periods at a time,
upon distant expeditions, from which, it is true, he always returned
victorious; but, while he was away, establishing peace and order
in some distant province, the Dark Priests were craftily at work
undermining his authority at home. However, for a long time, nothing
came of their plottings, and Mellenda reigned for several hundred
years----"

"That's a long time," Jack interrupted, regardless of his promise.

"For several hundred years," repeated Zonella with a reproving look
at the interrupter, "which was not very long, considering that his
father had reigned for fifteen hundred years, and was then cut off,
in the flower of his age, by an accident in battle. He (Mellenda)
had restored peace at last throughout the whole empire; reformed the
style of living, himself setting an example of great simplicity; and
his wisdom and justice and kindness of heart had made him revered and
loved wherever the name of Manoa was known. Then, finally, he married
a princess he was passionately fond of, named Elmonta, and had four
children, upon whom, they say, he lavished the most tender love. But
some occasion arose for him to leave Manoa once more, to visit a
distant part of his great empire. There was a treaty of alliance to be
made with another monarch, or some such matter of importance. He sailed
away and returned after a long absence, to find that Coryon----"

"Coryon!" exclaimed Jack, once more forgetful of his promises.

"Yes, Coryon, the same Coryon, as is believed, that we have here in the
land to-day. He had seized upon the government and gained over a vast
number of the most dissolute and discontented spirits to his side. He
was then, as now, the chief of the Dark Brotherhood, or Children of the
Night. All the crowd of idle, self-indulgent nobles and men of wealth,
but of loose life, among the people, whom Mellenda had rebuked and
curbed, broke out and joined Coryon's revolt; and they actually seized
upon Elmonta, Mellenda's queen, and his children, and offered them as
sacrifices to their gods. Coryon set up a king of his own choosing;
and, when Mellenda returned, he found his wife and children dead, and
the government in the hands of a puppet king controlled by Coryon, who
threatened him with death if he landed and fell into his hands. Such
was the message sent out to Mellenda when he arrived in sight of our
island on his return, successful in the mission that had called him
away, and impatient to get back to his wife and children. He had with
him a great fleet of vessels; and, though the revolt had spread to
the other islands, he could, perhaps, have found followers enough in
other parts of the empire to have regained his throne, had he been so
minded. But he was broken-hearted, and said that, since his wife and
children were no longer living, he had nothing left to fight for, and
cared not to take part in a civil war with his own people. Instead, he
decreed that their punishment should be that he (Mellenda) would go
away and leave them for many ages to suffer under the lash of the foul
religion they had supported; till all who had sinned against him saw
their wicked error, when he would return to punish finally the Dark
Priests and those who still wilfully supported them. Then, and for ever
afterwards, there should be peace and happiness and justice throughout
the land for all his people.

"So Mellenda sailed away, and was never seen or heard of more. Not long
after his departure came the great sinking of the waters, and the lake
of Parima disappeared. This the better-disposed inhabitants left here
regarded as a special punishment for their allowing Coryon to usurp
the government and drive away the great, good, and wise Mellenda. And
they rose up against Coryon and the king he had set up. But the crafty
priest had obtained too strong a position for the movement to succeed.
Moreover, he managed to pacify a part of his opponents in a strange
way. He declared he had not put to death all Mellenda's children, and
produced a boy, who, it is said, was recognised by those who ought to
know as one of Mellenda's children. This child he promised to place
upon the throne; and afterwards he did so.

"The nation, shut off from all the world, has much decreased in
numbers, and is now unknown where it was once all-powerful. For
centuries, it is said, the surrounding country was but a chaos of swamp
and mud. By degrees there grew up vegetation, and finally trees that,
in time, became thick, tangled forests that could not be penetrated.
Thus, for long ages, we have been cut off from all the other peoples
of the world. Some parties were sent out, hundreds of years ago, to
explore the surrounding country; but some never returned, and those
who did brought back such terrible accounts of awful woods haunted
by fearful creatures, and of deserts beyond, inhabited only by black
demons, that it was considered better to keep the country here entirely
to ourselves. So I believe the only known way that led out into the
woods was sealed up for good; and thus ended the last attempt to
communicate with the outside world.

"Many of the White Priests fled to Mellenda's vessels, and were taken
away with him when he departed; but the others, including their chief,
Sanaima, retired to Myrlanda, where they have ever since maintained
themselves.

"That is the story of Mellenda, and of how he left us, and of what
befell the proud city of Manoa after his departure. When he will come
back we know not; but some old prophecies obtain amongst the people
according to which the time of his return is very near, if it is not
indeed overpast."

"His return!" said Jack. "You surely would not have us understand
that you expect this venerable old fossil to return, in the flesh,
to trouble himself about the present state of the descendants of his
ungrateful people?"

Zonella stared.

"Why, _of course_ we do!" she answered. "There is not a man or a
woman--scarcely a child of a few years old--that has not been taught to
believe in it."

"I should think so," Ulama exclaimed, almost indignantly. "We all
_know_ it will be so; we believe it absolutely."

"But," said Jack, "how long ago do you reckon all this took place?"

"About two thousand years," Zonella replied, after a brief, but
apparently careful, calculation, counting up on her fingers.

"Two thousand years! And you--you two sensible young people--tell us
you expect to see this badly-treated, but respectable, old gentleman
turn up again, just much as usual, I suppose, after two thousand years!"

"Why not?" Ulama asked. "We have Coryon and Sanaima, both said to be
older than that."

"Yes--but"--looking at Leonard--"I fancy that is like the Pharoahs of
old, you know, where there was always a Pharoah on the throne, though
kings were born and died. It would be easy to keep up a farce of that
sort where, as here, the 'High Priest,' black or white, is so seldom
visible--always in the background."

"But if the king is three hundred and forty, may it not be possible to
live to two thousand, or more? I can point out many men of more than
five hundred in the king's palace," observed Zonella.

The gentle Ulama, even, looked somewhat offended.

"We do not question the wonderful things you tell us about the world
outside," she said. "Why should you question what we know to be true?"

"It seems to me," said Leonard, "that it all depends upon the virtues
of the 'Plant of Life.' Now, if that herb, or plant, or whatever it
is, really has the qualities attributed to it, why, the rest is easy
enough."

"I admit that," Jack said, laughing. "When once that is conceded, a
man may just as easily live to five thousand years. Only, even in that
case, I see a difficulty. How would Mellenda get the necessary 'Plant
of Life' away from here?"

"The White Priests who went away with him would not be likely to leave
their secret behind," explained Zonella. "Besides, it is specially
stated in our historical manuscripts--so Colenna has told me--that
those who went out from the island for long periods--governors of
distant provinces and the like--not only took a large supply of the
dried plant with them, but seeds that they might grow it; and in some
places they found the plant do well; though they kept its virtues a
secret from the peoples they went amongst. These things would be known
to Mellenda and to the White Priests who went away with him; and,
probably, they settled in a place where they knew the plant was being
grown."

"Were that so, it would explain something of the former far-reaching
fame and power of a small nation of islanders like these," said
Leonard. "The secret of such a plant--the rapid increase of population
when there were so few deaths in proportion--would of course give them
a long pull over other nations."

"As to the question whether we seriously expect Mellenda to return
to us," resumed Zonella, "in the large museum you will see one of
his suits of armour, his banner, and a celebrated sword of his, all
kept bright and ready for use and well preserved. They are kept there
waiting for him."

"I saw them," Jack remarked. "He must have been a big fine man, if that
suit fitted him. But, to go back to the son of this great king, said to
have been saved after all, and then put on the throne; did he have any
descendants?"

Zonella nodded.

"There have been five kings in the direct line since."

"I see. So that the present king is----"

"A great-great-great-grandson of the great Mellenda," put in Ulama.

"I think it was rather fortunate you managed as you did when you came
here," Zonella said after a pause; "for, if Coryon had been the first
to know of you strangers being in the country, he would have striven
in every way to have killed or captured you. They say he is a firm
believer in the early coming of Mellenda, and is in mortal terror about
it."

Jack was silent awhile, and then he observed drily,

"Well, all I can say is that I should very much like to see the good
gentleman, if he is still about; and I only hope and wish he will
arrive while we are here. If he has been travelling around all these
years, by this time he must know a thing or two! I wonder whether he
will come in a balloon!"




CHAPTER XIX.

HOPES AND FEARS.


Amongst other advantages of the peace or truce that had been arranged
with the mysterious Coryon, one was that Elwood and Templemore were
free to visit the canyon and the caves where their reserve stores lay,
and assure themselves that they were all safe. To do this they had to
arrange to be away one night, since it was a day's journey each way.
That night they passed in the cavern--which they had named 'Monella
Cave' in honour of their friend; the canyon itself they called 'Fairy
Valley'--and their camp equipage being all found intact where they
had hidden it away, they had everything at hand for making themselves
comfortable. They found, on examination, that the stone that closed
the entrance was in the same position as when they had left it. Having
removed the wooden bars, they rolled it to one side, and looked out
into the gloomy depths of Roraima Forest.

From this outlook Templemore turned back with a shudder of disgust.

"How I hate that forest!" he exclaimed. "How miserable it seems out
there! Verily it is wonderful, if you come to think of it, that we ever
had the patience and perseverance to cut our way through to this place."

"We never should have done so, but for Monella's influence," observed
Leonard. "How strange it all seems, doesn't it? Now that we are back
here, we could almost think all we have been through a dream. One thing
is certain; no other party of explorers would ever work their way
through this wood as we did; they would get disheartened before the end
of the first week. Nor could they possibly do any good by persevering,
unless they had that to guide them which Monella had. What is that
piece of white over there?"

And Leonard indicated a white patch upon a tree-trunk at the edge of
the clearing.

Templemore took out his glasses and looked through them.

"It's a piece of paper," he cried excitedly. "Some one's been here! We
must go out and inquire into this!" The ladder was quickly got out, and
they hurried down it and across the clearing to the tree that bore the
unexpected _affiche_. But, though the paper must have been purposely
nailed in its place it was blank; on opening it, however, they found
a few straight lines that formed a somewhat vague resemblance to the
letter M.

"Matava has been here!" Leonard cried out. "All he can do in the
writing line is to make some marks that mean M--his own initial, you
know. Poor fellow! Fancy his venturing here to seek for us!"

The paper had been folded many times, the 'M' being in the inside;
and it had been nailed just under an overhanging piece of bark, as a
protection from the weather.

"He must have executed this elaborate piece of penmanship at 'Monella
Lodge'," said Jack, "and brought it with him in case his journey here
should be in vain. He's a good fellow! Knowing, as we do, how he and
all his tribe abhor this wood and the mountain, we can appreciate
the devotion that led him to screw up his courage so far. And then to
have come for nothing! It's too bad, poor chap! What a pity we could
not have got down here and seen him! Plainly he had some hope we might
return, or he would not have left this simple yet ingeniously contrived
message for us!"

"His hope would be but a faint one at best," Leonard replied gravely.
"Having been here and found the entrance fast closed, and after our
failing to make any signals, as arranged, I fear he will carry back an
alarming tale to Georgetown."

"I fear so too, Leonard," Jack assented very seriously. "They will be
terribly alarmed about us; worse than if he had gone straight back
without coming here."

That evening, after they had cooked their evening meal, they sat by the
smouldering fire, both silent and both thoughtful. Jack smoked away
moodily at his pipe; Leonard was absolutely idle, except that he turned
his eyes, now on the glow of failing daylight overhead, then down at
the scene around him.

Each knew what was in the other's mind; yet neither liked to be the
first to speak of it. But at last Jack spoke.

"It's no use blinking the fact, Leonard," he began, "that this visit
of Matava here and the account he is sure to carry back is a serious
matter. Our friends will be more than alarmed; they will, perhaps, give
us up for dead. This raises the whole question again, What are we going
to do here, how long are we going to stay, and what about getting back?
We can't stay here for ever--at least, _I_ certainly don't mean to. I
don't like the idea of going away and leaving you here. Where are we
drifting to?"

Leonard was gloomy. He had been so more or less ever since that
conversation with Monella about Ulama. For a few minutes he made no
reply; then said, with a tinge of bitterness in his tone,

"You must wait awhile, Jack. I am not prepared to say yet, but--it may
be I shall be ready to clear out soon with you."

Jack raised his eyebrows and gave a brief, but keen, glance at his
friend. Then he smoked on stolidly for a while and ruminated.

"There's one who will never go back with us," presently he went on,
"and that's Monella. He spoke truly when he said he should never
return to 'civilisation.' He seems to have resolved to make his home
here for the future. He is now the king's right hand--his 'guide,
counsellor, and friend,' with him constantly, except when he's away
in the place they call Myrlanda, on some mysterious business. And,
perhaps, the oddest thing of all is that he is the most popular man at
the court--even with those he has, in a sense, displaced. You would
think there would be all kinds of envy, and hatred, and jealousy, and
counter-plotting, and general 'ructions,' when a stranger, suddenly
come from goodness knows where, stepped upon the scene and became
straight away the favourite and confidant and counsellor of the king!
Yet, the more he takes that character upon himself, the more they all
seem to like him!"

"Who can help liking him?" Leonard sighed. "Who can help loving him?
Even where he reproves, he does it so tenderly you only love him the
more for it. How can any one feel jealous, or angry, or envious with a
man who behaves to all as he does? For myself I do not wonder; he was
born to be a leader of men, as I said long ago; he has that magnetic
attraction that makes a great commander--a commander who inspires such
devotion that thousands and hundreds of thousands are ready to give
their lives for but a glance of approval or a word of praise. There
can't be many such men at this moment in the world; there cannot have
been many since the world was made. But, when such a man appears, he
quickly spreads his influence around him."

Jack gave a little laugh; but not an ill-natured one.

"You are as full as ever of enthusiasm for your hero," he remarked,
"though he _has_ been a sort of cold shower-bath to you lately, eh?"

Leonard coloured, and shifted uneasily on his seat.

"How did you know that?" he asked.

"I guessed it, old man. In fact, I saw the 'cold shower-bath' in his
eye that day--you know."

"Yes--perhaps you are not far out, Jack. However, I promised to leave
things in his hands, and there they must remain at present. Of his
regard for me I have no doubt whatever--or for us both. If he cannot do
the almost impossible, I shall accept my fate, and try to bear it as
well as may be. Let us say no more about it now."

Jack, who for all his usual habit of appearing somewhat unobservant,
could see most things, thought he could have told his friend of some
one else who was displaying signs of unhappiness under Monella's 'cold
shower-bath' treatment--Ulama, to wit. She had become very quiet and
grave of late; and, indeed, the fresh, childish gaiety she had shown
during the first few days after their arrival had disappeared. But
Jack discreetly decided to keep these thoughts to himself, and let
events take their course. He knew that they were in the keeping of a
head wiser and more far-seeing than his own--Monella's. Of late they
had seen comparatively little of him; he was most of his time either
closeted with the king, or had gone, it was said, to Myrlanda, to visit
Sanaima, the chief of the 'White Priests.' On these occasions he would
be away for two or three days together. Yet, whenever either of the
young men chanced to run against him--or, if they met at the king's
table--they found no alteration in his manner. Indeed, he showed, if
anything, increased kindliness in both his words and actions, often
going out of his way to do some little thing, in a manner all his own,
to show, before whoever might be present, his cordial feelings towards
them. For the rest, he had the air of one whose mind is charged with
anxious and weighty thoughts, and both Templemore and Elwood _felt_
rather than knew that he was occupied with fears of trouble in the
future.

One morning, a few days after the visit to the canyon, Monella invited
Leonard to walk out with him, and they went together to the place they
had named 'Monella's Height.'

The day was clear and bright, and a slight breeze came sighing through
the tree-tops. The scene around was full of soft repose, soothing and
curiously satisfying to the mind. But Leonard noticed it not to-day;
his heart beat fast, and his colour came and went, for something in
Monella's manner told him that he was about to hear a statement of
moment on the subject that was always uppermost in his thoughts. He
tried to brace himself to bear the worst, if it must come; but his
effort was not too successful.

"My son," Monella presently began, "I promised to speak with you, when
I could, upon the matter we talked about one day. Is your mind still
the same concerning it?"

Was it? Did he need to ask? Leonard impulsively replied. And he
launched into a rhapsody that need not here be given at length. Monella
listened in silence till the young man had finished, and then went on,

"Have you considered whether your wish is a wise--a final one? That,
were it granted, you must remain here for good? Never to return to your
own people?"

"Why, never?" Leonard asked. "In the future--one day, perhaps----"

Monella shook his head.

"You must clearly understand," he said, "that that cannot be. I have
told you all along that I never expected to return from my journey
here; and now I know that I shall never leave this place. And you
and your friend--you will have ere long to decide either to stay
here for good, or leave for good. If you elect to go, the king will
send you away rich--so rich that you will no more need to strive for
wealth; if to stay, he will give you posts of honour where you can
profitably employ yourselves in helping me in the great task I have
set myself--the teaching of the true religion of the one great God to
these my people; for"--he continued, when Leonard looked up at him in
surprise--"it is true that I am one of this nation by descent, and that
I have, therefore, 'after many days,' only wandered back to mine own
people. But I have seen too much of the world outside to love it; my
people desire to keep to themselves, and I can only, from what I have
seen and experienced, confirm them in that wish. I cannot find it in
my conscience to do otherwise. Therefore, we are resolved that there
shall be no intercourse between us and the great world beyond. It is
useless to say more upon the subject; it is settled beyond all reach
of argument or discussion. Hence, it will be necessary for both you
and your friend to decide whether to remain and cast in your lot with
us for your whole future lives, or to say farewell and return--but
not empty-handed--to your own people. It is a serious and weighty
matter for you to decide; therefore should not be settled hastily. Nor
is there any need for haste; take as long as you please to think it
over. Wait awhile, till you have seen more of the place, and have come
to know the people better. Or wait until"--here the speaker's voice
became impressive well-nigh to sternness--"until I shall have stamped
out this serpent brood that hath too long held this fair land in its
loathsome coils. Then shall ye see a new era here--an era of peace, and
cheerfulness, and godliness--and ye shall see that it is good to dwell
in such a country."

"I do not believe that any amount of reflection can alter my wishes in
this matter," Leonard answered earnestly. "Painful as the thought of
never seeing my friends again would be, yet it would be still harder
to leave here and never look again on her my heart has chosen for its
queen--aye, for years before I saw her. No! Now that fate has led me to
her, nothing in this world shall part us--if the decision rests with
me."

Monella regarded the young man fixedly, and there were both affection
and admiration in his glance. Very handsome Leonard looked, with the
light in his open honest eyes, and the flush upon his cheek. Then
Monella's look waxed overcast as from a passing shadow, and he made
answer, with a sigh,

"Youth, with its hopes and aspirations, when they come from honest
promptings, is always fair to look upon; more's the pity that these
aspirations all lead to but one end--sorrow, and disappointment, and
weariness. Verily, all is vanity, vanity! We travel by different roads,
but we all arrive at the same goal." He looked dreamily away across
the landscape to the far distant horizon; then continued, as though
talking to himself: "Yet youth pleases, because it desires to live in
love--and love is God and Heaven in one. It is the principal of the
only two things--it and memory--we carry with us in our passage from
this life to the next. Love and memory are two great indestructible
attributes of the human soul. True, we take with us our 'character,'
as it may be called, but that counts little, unless it be founded upon
love. And memory is the ever-living witness showing forth whether our
life here has been influenced mainly by selfishness, or ambition, or
hate, or cruelty, or--love. For only the love shall live and flourish
again; all the rest shall wither and die. Ye hear of 'undying hate,'
but there is no such thing. All hates, even, die out at last; love only
lives for ever and can never die."

He paused, and remained for a space gazing into the distance. Finally,
he turned again to Leonard.

"Come with me, and find your friend; I have that to show you that I
wish you seriously to consider."

They walked together down the hill. Meanwhile he continued,

"You say your mind is made up, if the decision rests with you. Well,
nominally, it rests with the king, of course; but, in reality, I
suspect, in this case with the maiden herself. The king is too fond of
her--too anxious for her happiness--to desire to thwart her wishes. And
he has remarked of late that she is not as she used to be; that she has
fits of sadness and melancholy. Her state alarms him. I think, perhaps,
he fears it may be the first sign of what is called here the 'falloa.'
But," looking at Leonard with a half-smile, "I suspect there is a
remedy for her disease, whereas there is none known for the 'falloa.'"

When Leonard heard these words his heart and pulses bounded, and he
felt indeed as though walking upon air. Nor did he forget what he owed
in the matter to his friend. His breast swelled with gratitude, and he
poured out his thanks with a rush of words that stopped only when he
caught sight of Templemore coming towards them.

Leonard ran to meet him, and somewhat incoherently explained what
Monella had been saying, while Monella led the way to his own
apartments in the palace.

When they were seated there he went over again most of what he had
impressed on Leonard--for Jack had understood but little of Elwood's
impetuous talk--and added,

"Now I want you to advise your friend and consult with him, lest he
should decide too hastily; and that must not be. I also must speak
further with the king. You see," he continued gravely, "this is a
serious thing. The king's son-in-law will look forward to be king one
day; therefore he must not be lightly chosen. Again, to choose one of
an alien race is no small thing. For myself, I am free from any worldly
prejudices about birth, and 'family,' and 'royal blood,' and all that
vain, foolish cant. And the king is of the same mind, and wants only to
choose for his child the one who pleases her, provided he is worthy.
For that I have passed my word to him. I have lived long upon the earth
and have consorted with many men; thus I have learned to judge of
character and disposition. And I have met none to whom I would sooner
trust a daughter of mine own, than to our friend here. On that point,
therefore, I have been able to satisfy the king; and fate seems to have
settled the rest beforehand. For, incredible as the sceptic may regard
it, these two had met in visions long before they encountered one
another in the flesh. Thus, in the present, as in the past, fate points
the way, and so it will be in the future. For no one can escape his
destiny. For good or ill, each has a destiny prepared for him, and that
destiny he must perforce fulfil."




CHAPTER XX.

THE MESSAGE OF APALANO.


The furniture in use in the city of Manoa, in material and style, was
not unlike that found in Japan. That in the palace was of exquisite
design and finish, much of it inlaid with gold and silver. It was such
a cabinet that Monella now unlocked: he took from it a parchment roll.

"This," said he, "is the document I gave the king the first day he
received us. Now, of course, it belongs to him; but I have borrowed
it, temporarily, to show you. It was written by Apalano, the last
descendant of those 'White Priests' who fled this country ages ago
with the king Mellenda. In some of the old parchments in my possession
it is described how those who thus went away found the empire going
everywhere to pieces, and falling a prey to barbaric hordes of black
or red or cruel white races; and how they eventually took refuge in
the secluded valley high up amongst the peaks of the Andes, of which
I have already spoken to you, and dwelt there through many centuries.
They had brought with them, and succeeded in cultivating, the 'Plant
of Life,' or 'karina'; but, notwithstanding--and albeit it made them
all long-lived--the fatal disease, the 'falloa,' claimed them one after
another, till Apalano and I alone were left. Then the 'falloa' laid
its withering hand upon Apalano also; he lost his last child, and that
affected him very deeply; for, before he died, he wrote this strange
letter which tells all about myself that I know with certainty; yet
hints, as you will see, at still more to be learned in the future. I
will read it to you:--

  "'TO SANAIMA, THE CHIEF WHITE PRIEST OF MANOA. OR, IF DEAD, HIS
      DESCENDANT OR SUCCESSOR. OR TO THE REIGNING KING OF MANOA,
      GREETING.

  "'I, Apalano, the last of the descendants of the White Priests who
  fled with the great King Mellenda, do commend to your care the
  bearer of this letter, he whom ye will know by the name of Monella.
  He is, after myself, the sole survivor of our race outside thy land
  of Manoa. Treat him with all courtesy, respect and confidence,
  for he is of royal descent, and the unsullied blood of thine
  ancient line of kings flows in his veins. Mark well his counsels,
  give heed to his warnings, and observe his rulings; for he comes
  to restore the true religion of the Great Spirit, and to bring
  peace and happiness to our land. Long years ago he did receive a
  grievous injury to the head in combat with a savage foe. This cast
  a shadow upon his memory of the past, so that he knoweth naught
  of what went before, and his former life is blank, save for some
  vague passing glimpses that, at rare times, come back to him in
  the guise of dreams and visions. We could have told him much of
  all that went before, but we have refrained;--first for that he
  might not have rightly comprehended what we had to tell, and next,
  in mercy; for he hath suffered much. It was deemed best that the
  recollections of his sufferings should sleep until the time for his
  awakening should arrive, when the work for which the Great Spirit
  hath appointed him shall lie before him and shall form his sorrow's
  antidote and comfort.

  "'The memory that hath untimely been suspended--for we know that it
  may not be destroyed--perchance may be restored to its full power
  by such an accident as wrecked it; but, failing that, there is but
  one sure treatment--namely, to drink of the infusion of the herb
  called 'trenima' that groweth in Myrlanda and nowhere else. Let the
  stranger Monella, that bringeth this to thee, drink of 'trenima'
  in accordance with the rules I have laid down for him upon another
  scroll; let him, for some weeks, take of it sparingly even as I
  have written; then more frequently, and lo! all his past life,
  now hidden, shall be revealed to him, the sun shall light up the
  recesses of his memory, and he shall know himself and what lies
  before him.

  "'And my dying eyes, though unable yet to pierce the future, still
  can see that his coming amongst you shall be in itself a sign
  of the truth of these my words. When he shall appear to you I
  know not; only that it will be at the time the Great Spirit hath
  appointed--not an hour sooner nor an hour behind that time--ay, not
  one minute. And herein ye shall read a message from the Almighty
  Spirit, and ye shall know that Monella's coming at that special
  time was marked out by the hand of Destiny. And ye shall find upon
  his body marks whose meaning will be known unto Sanaima, or to him
  on whom hath fallen his mantle.

  "'With my greeting, I bid ye now farewell--ye unto whom this
  scroll shall be delivered--my first and last message to the land
  of my forefathers, and to those that now rule there. Through many
  centuries we, a faithful few, have kept your memory and our love
  for you green in our hearts; and I and those who have been with me
  had hoped, as the appointed time drew near, that the Great Spirit
  would have deigned to grant to us to see our ancient city and our
  native land. But it was not to be; all have gone save me and him
  who brings you this; but in him I send the blessing that we have
  preserved and nursed for you through long years of persecution and
  despair.

  "'If ye would return our love and care for you, I pray you show
  them unto him we send. I know that he is worthy of them; and,
  further, that in his own breast he bears for you the sum of all the
  love we in our own persons would have shown, had we been spared to
  greet ye--I and those who have preceded me to the land of the Great
  Spirit.

    "'Farewell!
      "'APALANO.'"

When Monella had finished reading this strange letter, he leaned his
chin upon his hand and fell into a reverie, Leonard and Templemore
meanwhile looking on in silence. Presently Monella roused himself, and,
with a deep-drawn sigh, passed his hand across his forehead with a look
of pain. His action was as though he had half-caught some flitting
thought or memory, that had, after all, eluded him; and that the effort
to retain it had cost him mental pain. After a short interval he said,
with one of his rare smiles and in the musical voice that captivated
every one, so full were they of kindliness,

"Now you know as much about me as I know myself. I did not show you
this before, because I had been charged to hand it only to those to
whom it was addressed; and this is the first opportunity I have since
had, for the king sent it to Sanaima, who returned it only a day or
two ago. But, since you must now consider seriously the question of
your going or remaining, it is right that you should know all I can
tell you of myself. It is very little; yet sufficient to explain my
present feelings. You can understand, now that you have read that
letter, that I am now, with all my heart and soul, one with these
people. I look at everything from their point of view; I consider only
their interest, their welfare, their safety, their advantage. If you
shall elect to remain with us--to become one of us--you shall find me
ever a staunch friend who will do all he can to make you feel at home
amongst us, and will place you in positions of great honour. If, on the
other hand, you prefer to leave us, you shall not go without such marks
of the king's favour as are beyond, perhaps, your dreams. These are the
alternatives that lie before you. Take time to ponder them; there is,
as I have already told you, no need for an immediate decision."

When, after leaving Monella, the two were once more alone together,
Leonard burst out with the thought that filled his mind,

"I scarcely know how to express my feelings. I am full of sadness and
yet of joy, and I know not which predominates."

"I know what it will be," said Jack gloomily. "You will stay, and I
shall have to return alone. What excuse I shall give to people for
leaving you here--dead to them and to the world for ever--or whether
I shall ever be forgiven for appearing to have deserted you, God only
knows. I wish you would think a little upon all this. For the rest,
I congratulate you with all my heart. To be the future king of so
ancient and remarkable a nation, is a piece of 'luck' that does not
fall to everybody. By Jove!" he exclaimed with increasing earnestness,
"upon my word I don't wonder at your going in for it--indeed, if--that
is--well, if I had not already set my mind upon something else, I
would chuck up the world in general and throw in my lot with you and
be your--your Prime Minister--or State Engineer--or some other high
functionary." And he laughed good-naturedly at the ideas the suggestion
called up in his mind.

"Don't let us meet trouble half way," said Leonard hopefully. "The time
of parting is not yet; who knows what may turn up? Monella may make us
some concession that will meet the case. And now look here. I have been
thinking of a plan for sending a message home."

Jack stared.

"How on earth?" he asked.

"It won't be much of a message, and perhaps it will never reach home;
but we can try. Let us find a place where we can get a view in the
direction of 'Monella Lodge' and watch at night for camp fires out on
the far savanna. We must find a spot screened from observation on this
side. Then we will bring some powder up from our stores, and flash some
signals as Monella had arranged."

"But what good will that do? Even if they are seen it will only be by
Indians who will not understand them."

"Never mind. If any Indians see them they are sure to spread the news
about; and probably the first place to hear of it will be Daranato, the
Indian village where my old nurse Carenna lives. Matava may have told
her about the signals, or even other Indians. At any rate, she will be
pretty sure to hear of them and let Matava know when he returns; or
perhaps even send a message down by some one going to the coast, to say
that signals had been seen that showed we were alive on the summit of
Roraima."

Jack reflected.

"Yes!" he presently said slowly. "Yes. There is something in the idea.
We will try it; it can do no harm. But, to be of any good, we shall
have to signal frequently; once or twice would not be of much use."

"Precisely. Before long, Matava will be back from the coast, and will
hear of them, and will come out on to the savanna at night to see them
for himself. And he would watch night after night with an Indian's
patience till he saw them."

"Yes; I suppose Monella won't object? We ought not to do it without
his consent. But for that awful forest, we might even go farther; we
might make an expedition for a week or two, and get to 'Monella Lodge'
and leave a letter there; or even to Daranato, and leave letters to be
taken to the coast by the first Indians going that way."

"No, we can't manage that, nor would Monella like us to be away so
long. You never know what trouble might turn up here with these priests
and their vile crew. And that reminds me of that letter Monella read
to-day. What did you think of it?"

"An extraordinary letter! Really, I feel almost inclined to go back to
my former idea that Monella and his friends were all mad together!"

Leonard stared aghast.

"What! You speak of that again?" he exclaimed, real indignation in his
tones. "After the way everything has come out--after all Monella's
kindness----"

Jack stopped him with a smile and a touch of his hand on the other's
arm.

"Put the brake on, old man," he said. "I don't mean anything
disrespectful. But if Monella, who already seems to have been about
the world and to have seen as much as three ordinary men of three
score years and ten--if the point to which his memory reaches is only
a portion of his life--why, you see, he must be Methuselah, or the
Wandering Jew himself, or some other mythical being. Already, he has
puzzled me, times enough, with his extraordinary tales; at the same
time you cannot doubt his absolute sincerity. So that if his 'complete'
memory is to go back farther still, why--Heaven help us!--we sha'n't
know whether we are on our heads or our heels."

After a short silence Leonard spoke.

"But, if they had this 'Plant of Life' with them--those he was
with--would that not in part account for it?"

"It might; but it is making large demands on one's credulity. But what
I really mean is this. I am inclined, at times, to think Monella a bit
mad. He has a religious mania; he has persuaded himself--and evidently,
from that letter, has been encouraged by others to believe it--that
he has a religious mission to these people. Well, no harm in _that_,
you say. No; and that he is honourable, upright, sincere, I feel very
certain. Still, he may be self-deceived. He seems to me to be one of
those fervidly religious mystics who can persuade themselves into
almost anything."

"Yet he is no fanatic. See how mild and gentle he can be; how slow to
anger, how just in his discrimination between right and wrong!"

"I admit all that. Still, I repeat, he might easily deceive himself."

That afternoon Leonard sought out Ulama and asked to be allowed to row
her on the lake; and to this she smiled a glad assent. When he had
rowed the boat out a long distance from the shore, he laid down the
oars, and let her drift. A gentle breeze was blowing, and this served
to temper the ardour of the waning sun.

"Do you remember the last time we were thus alone, Ulama?" presently he
asked her.

"Indeed I do," she answered, her cheek, that had of late been very
pale, now glowing with a rosy flush. "But I began to think _you_ had
forgotten, and were never going to take me out again."

"Ah! It was not my fault, Ulama."

"Whose else could it be?" she asked.

"Well--I cannot tell you now. But, if you remember the occasion, do you
remember also what we spoke of?"

The colour deepened in the maiden's face. She bent her head and fixed
her eyes dreamily upon the water; and one hand dropped over the boat's
side, as on that day of which he had reminded her.

"I then said," he went on, "that I loved you dearly, and asked
you whether you could love me in return. And you said you did not
understand such love as I described to you. Do you remember?"

"Yes; I remember," she said softly. "But then I said I could scarce
credit such sudden love for me; and that you might change. And it seems
you have, for, since then, you have never told me that you loved me."

He seized her hand.

"No, Ulama," he cried passionately, "it was not so. I have not altered.
But I feared--that--well, that your father might be angered. 'Twas for
that reason that I spoke no more to you of love."

"In that you did my father wrong," she answered frankly. "My father
loves me far too well to cause me pain and----"

"Ah! Then--would it pain you were I to go away from here and never see
you more?"

She started, and a look of mingled fear and grief came into her eyes.

"You are--not--going away?" she faltered anxiously.

"Not if you bid me stay, Ulama. If you but whisper in my ear that
you may come to love me--if only a little--then I will stay--stay
on always--forget my country, my own people, my friends; give up
everything, and live for you--for you alone, my sweet, my gentle Ulama;
my beloved Ulama!"

Gradually her head sank until it rested on her hand; her colour
deepened, she made no reply, but still gazed pensively into the water.

"Tell me, Ulama--am I to stay or go? Oh, say that you will try to love
me!"

He still retained her hand, and now he passed his own gently over it,
she making no effort to withdraw it. Thus answered, he pressed his lips
upon it, and at this, also, she showed no resentment.

"I would have you stay," she presently murmured softly; "but indeed I
fear it is too late for me to try to love you, for my heart tells me
you have my love already."

And the boat drifted aimlessly in the evening light. The sun had set,
and the moon, the witness of so many lovers' vows--both true and
false--had shown her silvery light above the surrounding cliffs; and
still the two sat on and scarcely spoke, yet, in speechless eloquence,
recounting to each other the old, old tale.

And, when the sweet Ulama left the boat, her heart could scarce contain
the joy that filled it; and in her eye there was a light that it had
lacked before, so that the king, her father, drew her affectionately to
him and asked her what had wrought this wondrous change.

She shyly bent her head and answered him,

"To-morrow thou shalt know, my father." Then she hid her blushing face
upon his shoulder. "I have a favour to ask of thee; but--I would fain
not speak of it this evening."

Then, as though fearing that he would wrest from her the secret of her
joy, she stole swiftly to her room, and from her window looked across
the lake, now shimmering in the silver moonbeams.

For long she sat there motionless, dreaming youth's fond dreams;
dwelling, in loving tenderness, on every word and look she could recall
of Leonard while the boat had drifted here and there, and the lap,
lap, lap, of the ripples against the sides had kept up a soft musical
accompaniment to the rhythm of love's heart-beats.




CHAPTER XXI.

THE GREAT DEVIL-TREE.


In pursuance of their design of making signals from the summit of
Roraima, the two friends made further explorations of the northern
side. And this led them into an adventure, one day, that had well-nigh
proved fatal to them both.

On mentioning their intention to Monella, he had at first objected;
but, upon Leonard's reminding him of the anxiety and distress
Templemore's mother and _fiancée_ might be, too probably were, in, he
had given a reluctant consent.

"Your friends, Dr. Lorien and his son, talked of coming back again,"
he remarked. "Do you think they are likely to make the journey with
Matava, and to be coming to seek for you?"

"Certainly they are coming into this neighbourhood, after orchids,"
Leonard replied; "and, now you speak of it--though I had not thought
about it lately--the news Matava will probably take back may cause
such anxiety that they may hurry to get here sooner than they would
otherwise have been likely to, in order to make inquiry about us on the
spot."

"Matava might lead them to the cavern, if they came to Daranato," said
Monella thoughtfully.

"Yes; of course that is possible."

"And a very little ingenuity or a small charge of powder would force an
opening; and their way would then be easy to get up here?"

"Certainly."

Monella's face clouded.

"That must not be; you must clearly understand that you must tell me in
time if there seems any such probability. I wish not to seem unfriendly
towards your friends--and personally I liked them--but to allow them to
come in here would be as the beginning of a flood, as the letting out
of water. It cannot, must not be."

"Well, after all, it is only a supposition," observed Jack. "Time
enough to deal with it, if the occasion actually arise. They were going
on to Rio on some law business which was likely to occupy them some
time; they might be detained there indefinitely, they said."

"Quite so," Monella answered decisively. "Only, remember, I rely upon
you to inform me in time. And be very cautious and vigilant upon that
side of the country, for, as you know, it is in that direction that
Coryon and his people have their habitation."

In their walks they were often accompanied by one or both of Ulama's
pumas, and on the day referred to the male one, 'Tuo,' as it was
called, came after them when they had gone a little way, and trotted
quietly beside them; and this, as it turned out, saved their lives.

They came upon a place they had not seen before. Two great iron gates
of highly finished workmanship, and picked out with gold, shut in
a narrow opening in a high rock. They were such as might form the
entrance to a public garden. A broad road wound round from the inside
of the gates; but outside, where Templemore and Elwood were, the rocks
rose up fifty or sixty feet, or even more, on either side; and though
they followed them a considerable distance on both sides of the gates,
the rocks still towered up precipitously for as far as they could see.

"This can scarcely be the entrance to Coryon's 'domain,'" said Jack,
"or there would be some people about on guard. It must be some kind of
public place."

"A cemetery, perhaps," suggested Leonard.

"I believe you've hit it. Well, there's a gate open, so I suppose
there's no harm in our having a peep inside."

"Suppose some one were on the watch, and were to pop round and close
and lock the gates when we were inside and out of sight," said Leonard
suspiciously. "Monella warned us to be wary and to suspect traps."

"We have our revolvers; and, if the worse came to the worst, we could
climb over these rocks."

In the result they went inside; then made their way to a wide terrace
that ran round an extensive area of horseshoe shape, half natural, half
artificial, as they judged. This terrace extended several hundreds
of yards in both directions from the point at which they stood; but
it narrowed off considerably on one side of the horseshoe. Above and
behind it, cut out of the rock, were other terraces, like steps or rows
of seats, but broad below and narrowing as they got higher. These went
all round, almost to the top of the rocks. It was, in fact, a vast
amphitheatre where many thousands of people could stand or sit. At the
farther end it was open; and in the centre was a large arena sunk some
fifteen feet below the main terrace on which they stood.

This arena opened out into a deep defile beyond, from the rocky heights
of which there issued a rushing stream of water that flowed into a
large, dark-looking pool below.

But what at once riveted their attention, almost to the point of
fascination, was an extraordinary-looking tree that stood in the arena.
This tree had no leaves, but branches only. In colour it was of a
sombre violet-blue, tinged in places with a ruddy hue. The trunk was
about thirty feet in height, and eight or nine feet in diameter. The
branches, which were many--a hundred or more probably--drooped over
from where the trunk ended and trailed about the ground. But what was
most astonishing, these branches were all in motion. Though there was
no wind, they waved to and fro, ran restlessly along the ground like
lithe snakes, and intertwined one with another, at the same time making
a harsh, rustling sound.

Straight in front of where they stood was a long pier of masonry that
ran out towards the tree, which was not in the centre of the arena but
was nearer to that part of the terrace where it grew narrow. In order
the better to observe the object that had so roused their curiosity,
the two young men walked across the terrace and some distance along
the pier; and, when they had proceeded a little more than half its
length, one of the long trailing branches--some of them appeared to be
two hundred or three hundred feet in length--came up over the end of
the pier, and, with a rustle, made its way swiftly towards them. It
was within two or three feet of where they stood looking at it, when
the puma, with a loud growl, sprang forward and bit at it. Immediately
the branch curled itself round the animal's body and began dragging
it along the pier towards the tree. Then two or three other branches
advanced and went to the assistance of the first one, coiling round the
poor puma and dragging it farther along, despite its teeth and claws
and its desperate struggles. In succession, other branches crept up
over the end of the stonework, and, just in time, Jack seized Leonard
and dragged him back.

"For Heaven's sake come away, man!" he exclaimed in horror. "That tree
is _alive_, and will drag us off, if once one of those branches touch
us!"

They had stepped back only barely in time, for a moment after a
trailing branch swept over the very spot on which they had halted. When
assured that they were really out of reach, they stood fascinated, but
filled with horror, while they witnessed the unavailing fight made by
the poor animal that had saved their lives. More branches came to the
aid of the others; they coiled round its mouth and closed it; round
its legs and bound them; and soon, helpless, a mere bundle in the
coiling, curling branches, as it were, it was drawn off the pier to the
ground below. Then it was rolled on and on till it had almost reached
the tree-trunk, where were shorter but thicker and stronger branches
waiting for it. These, in their turn, soon coiled round it; then,
slowly, they bent upwards, carrying the poor animal in their relentless
grasp, and lowered it into a hollow in the centre of the top of the
trunk, where it almost disappeared from sight. Then all the thicker
branches coiled round it and shut it completely out from view, forming
a sort of huge knot round the top of the tree and remaining motionless;
while the longer and more slender branches continued to play restlessly
about, seeking for further prey. Then, without a word, the two turned
away; nor did they speak till they found themselves safely outside the
great gates. Then they looked, horror-struck, at each other.

Jack was the first to break the silence.

"Great heavens!" he exclaimed. "What an escape! What an awful monster!
What a frightful death! And that poor animal--that saved us both! What
shall we say to the princess? Talk of 'traps'! If this gate was left
open as a 'trap'--and it looks to me so--we have reason indeed to be
thankful!"

"What _is_ it?" Leonard asked at last.

"A 'devil-tree.' It is a carnivorous tree. I've seen a small one
before; in a forest in Brazil that we were working through. One of the
dogs got caught in it and was nearly killed before we cut it free with
our axes. And then it was badly hurt, and so was I; a branch caught
hold of my hand and tore some of the flesh off it. And where we cut
this branch it _bled_! A dark crimson-blue liquid oozed out that stank!
Oh, there, I can't tell you what the stench was like! I've smelt _some_
bad smells in my time, but that beat anything I ever came across! But
that was only a small bush. I had no idea they could grow into great
flesh-eating monsters like this! Why, that thing must have been there a
thousand--ah--two thousand years, I should say. Fully that."

"But," said Leonard, "why is it kept here? who feeds
it--and--what--is--it--fed--on?"

He asked this last question slowly, and looked at the other in blank,
horrified amazement.

"It can't live without food," he continued. "And it must want a lot
too. Whoever can take the trouble to get it food of the only kind--as I
suppose--that it would care for? And why is it there in the middle of
that strange place? One would almost think it was kept there as a kind
of show or curiosity; and yet--we have never heard about it all the
time we have been here! And it is there, with the gate open, no fence
to guard people, or notice to warn them. Well! It's a mystery to me!"

But if they had been astounded and horror-stricken at what they had
seen, they were still more mystified and upset by Ulama's behaviour
when they told her of their adventure; for she fainted right off and,
when she recovered, seemed so overcome with terror as to be unable to
say a word. No explanation would she give; save that now and then she
murmured, almost in a moan, to herself,

"Then it _is_ true! And I never knew! It is horrible--too horrible!"

When Leonard expressed his sorrow about the puma, she hardly seemed to
notice it.

"Ah yes!" she said once. "Poor Tuo! I shall miss him--and such a death,
too! But oh, he saved you and your friend! And then, he was but an
animal--but the others!"

At her express desire they promised not to speak to any one else about
it.

"I will tell you why--or you will know why--later," she added. "But you
can speak privately to Monella about it; to no one else just now!"

When they found an opportunity of speaking to him about it, he looked
very grave.

"You have had a narrow escape," he said. "Heaven be thanked you did
escape. I cannot explain more to you now, but may be able to do so
shortly. Meantime, please do as the princess says, and keep this matter
to yourselves."

All this time Leonard's relations with Ulama had remained unchanged;
they had not been placed on any settled footing. Monella had asked him
to take time to make up his mind, and had intimated that nothing would
be said or done meanwhile. Leonard had, however, been too impatient to
put his fate to the test to be able to wait after the encouragement
Monella had given to him. But, whether Ulama had spoken on the subject
with her father, he knew not; for it so happened that he had not seen
her alone since their love-scene in the boat.

And now she was evidently much discomposed about their adventure with
the 'devil-tree'; though she did not refer to it again.

Naturally too, the recollection of it was very much in the minds of the
two young men. Leonard asked Templemore, one day, what the branches of
the one he had seen were like.

"They were covered with small excrescences," he replied, "that are
suckers and piercers in one. They pierce the flesh and then suck the
blood. The whole affair is a sort of gigantic vegetable 'octopus,'
or devil-fish, only that it has a hundred or more 'arms' or branches
instead of eight, as the octopus has. I have heard of devil-fish
having been caught as large as eighty feet in length, on the coast of
Newfoundland. But I never knew that its vegetable prototype grew to
anything like the size."

"Of course I have seen devil-fish," said Leonard thoughtfully; "but
they have a mouth--a great beak--to which their arms carry the food. Do
you think it is the same here? You saw that the branches carried the
poor puma up into a hollow in the top of the trunk. Do you suppose the
thing has a kind of mouth there?"

"Goodness only knows! It must be an awful sort of affair, if it is so.
The whole thing is monstrous and uncanny. Don't let us talk about it!"

But, as a result of this experience, they sought in another direction
for a likely place from which to make their intended signals; and
finally they found one convenient for their purpose. Then they made two
or three trips to the canyon to bring up the requisite powder. They
also brought back from the secret cave a number of things Monella
wanted. From the first, at his suggestion, they had told no one except
the king, Ulama, and Zonella, of the means by which they had gained
access to the mountain; and these had promised to keep the knowledge to
themselves.

"The place has evidently been so long unvisited," Monella had remarked,
"that probably most of those who once knew of it have forgotten all
about it. No need to remind them just now. Many years ago, as I have
been informed, a project was started for filling it up."

"Filling it up!"

"Yes, and if you go to the other end of the canyon--that by which we
entered--you will find, even now, in the thick wood that everywhere
surrounds the top of the canyon, vast numbers of great boulders that
were quarried from the surrounding cliffs and hauled to the edge in
readiness to be thrown down. They lie, in fact, just over the cavern we
came in by. There they have remained for a very long time, it seems.
Had that intention been carried out, all our work in cutting through
the forest and finding the entrance to the cavern, as you can see,
would have been thrown away."

"And what stopped it?"

"It is said that the people threatened a rebellion. The belief in the
eventual return of Mellenda--of whom you have heard--is deep-seated;
and, though the people here are anxious enough to keep to themselves,
they would not assent to closing irrevocably the only means by which
their hero could gain admittance, should he ever come."

"Do they expect him to come with a host of followers--a conquering
army--or do they expect the great lake to come back, and that he will
arrive with a grand fleet of ships?" Templemore asked, with somewhat of
a sarcastic smile.

Monella passed his hand across his brow in the half-dreamy manner
that was his at times, as though striving to collect his thoughts, or
to arrest and force into shape some half-formed conception that had
flitted across his mind and escaped his grasp. For a minute he stared
vacantly away into the distance and was silent. Then, with a look as
though of pain at failing to catch the fleeting image, he turned away,
saying simply,

"I cannot tell you."

During the days that followed, Templemore passed much of his time in
the museums; time that Elwood spent in a lover's dream of happiness
with Ulama. In the relics of the former history of this strange
people, Templemore took a deep interest; and in the archives and
ancient manuscripts he found many evidences of the former existence of
scientific and engineering knowledge that astonished and perplexed him.
On the true meaning and import of some of these he sought the help of
Monella, who would frequently accompany him in these visits, and, from
his better knowledge of the language, was able to assist him to unravel
their curious contents.

"These people must once have been great engineers and architects!" he
exclaimed in surprised admiration on one of these occasions.

Monella smiled and made reply,

"There is nothing so surprising in that, if you comprehend the true
significance of the gigantic earthworks still extant in many places on
this continent. Have you seen any of them?"

"No; but I have both heard and read of them."

"I have seen them; and I tell you your mind can form no idea of their
extent, of the scientific knowledge and the prodigious amount of time
and labour that must have been expended on them, unless you actually
see them. They are of various forms, mostly geometrical figures upon
a vast scale--miles in extent. The wonderful thing is that a certain
figure is repeated exactly in different places hundreds of miles
apart. Yet you shall take your cleverest engineers of the present day,
give them the advantages--or supposed advantages--of all your modern
discoveries and machinery, and scientific instruments, and, say,
unlimited workpeople to do their building, and _then_ it would tax all
their skill to construct a work _exactly_ similar to one of those great
figures. Yet now, upon some of them, trees are growing that must be
over a thousand years old!"

"And what were they for--what was their object?" Templemore asked.

Then there came over the other's face again that curious look as of one
seeking for a lost recollection; but it seemed to evade him, and he
answered somewhat as before,

"I think I ought to be able to tell you," he replied, "but I cannot now
seem to remember."

It was while thus together one day that Templemore asked him for some
further information concerning the 'Plant of Life.'

"You have told me," he said, "that your people, with whom you lived in
that secluded valley high up in the Andes, had with them the 'karina'
and cultivated it. Therefore I suppose you yourself have been in the
habit of taking it?"

"Always. And in my travelling to and fro in the world I always had with
me a good supply of the dried herb. I was accustomed to leave stores
of it in certain towns, so that if I lost what I had with me by any
accident, there was more within easy reach."

"I see. But what I am puzzled about is this: why, if the virtues of
the plant are so great, do people ever die at all? And why do some live
longer than others?"

"As to the first question," Monella answered, "man was never intended
to live on this earth for ever. The human frame _must_ wear out sooner
or later. As to the second query, some constitutions are naturally
stronger than others, and these endure longer, just as is the case in
the world outside where the plant is not known. The effect of the plant
is simply to keep the blood pure, if originally pure. If, however,
there is an inherited taint, that taint will make itself felt sooner
or later and undermine the vitality of the system. In this case the
plant will only result in ensuring a somewhat longer life than would
otherwise have been the case. Sooner or later the vitality will fall
off and gradual decay set in, although (the blood being kept still
pure) ordinary diseases are kept at bay. Lastly, there is the question
of the will."

"The _will_?"

"Yes; that has a most powerful influence. If a man who has inherited
a constitution that is absolutely sound, from ancestors who have
possessed the same through many generations, and if he has, in
addition, a strong _will_, powerful beyond the average, he may live
longer--if he is so minded."

"I--do not understand you," said Templemore, somewhat puzzled.

Monella gazed at him with a smile that was full of sadness.

"You would," he answered, "if you were old yourself; if you had
outlived all that made life worth having--your wife, and others you
love, your ambitions, your hopes. _Then_ does the soul grow weary,
and restless as well; it is like unto a bird that is caged whose time
for migration has come. It will either fret or pine itself to death,
or beat itself to death against the bars of its cage. Only two things
can then keep the soul from taking its flight; the _will_ to live to
complete some unfinished work, or a delight in a worldly, wicked life.
A nature superlatively evil, like Coryon's, may enable its possessor
to live on and on for an indefinite time; where better men take the
'falloa' and die. Or a man, not himself enamoured of life upon this
earth, may exert his _will_ to carry out to its end some great work to
benefit his fellow-creatures, and he too may keep the 'falloa' at arm's
length for an unusually long period. In other words, the 'falloa' is a
form of melancholia, of weariness with the world, of an inward sense
that life's work is completed. It is the result of that feeling that we
are told took possession at last even of him who has been called the
Wise Man of the World--King Solomon--whose wisdom and riches and power
only brought him to the same point I have indicated--that at which the
soul declares that all earthly things are but vanity."

On another occasion, Templemore was accompanied by Zonella and Colenna;
and the latter took him into a gallery he had not before seen, the door
being usually kept locked.

In it, to his surprise, were ranged hundreds of stands of arms and
military uniforms, helmets, spears, shields, swords, daggers, and red
tunics, all kept in splendid condition, as though for instant use. All
the helmets had little silver wings at their sides, and the shields
were engraved in the centre with a strange hieroglyphic, the same that
he had noticed chiselled upon the fronts of many of the principal
buildings.

"There," said Colenna, "are the arms and uniforms of Mellenda's
soldiers. Over in Myrlanda, in the great temple of the White Priests,
are hundreds more; all kept ready for use, as you see these here. You
see the silver wings upon the helmets, similar to those on that of
Mellenda's suit that stands in the other gallery. And that figure upon
the shields is the sacred sign that was engraved upon his signet-ring.
It signifies his seal or sign-manual. Wherever you see that mark, it
refers to him; on a building it implies that he designed or built it.
His royal colour was red, as the king's to-day is blue; and these red
tunics are for his soldiers."

"When they come," said Jack, discreetly repressing the incredulous
smile that almost forced itself upon his lips.

"When _he_ comes," said Colenna, lifting his hat reverently. "Yes, when
_he_ returns to us."

"You don't believe in that, I know," interposed Zonella; "yet we all
do; and it is a good thing we do, I think, for I fear many in the land
would go mad under their dread of Coryon, if they did not believe in a
happier future for the country. But there," she added sadly, "it does
not matter to _you_. You have no interest in what may go on here in the
future. You intend to go back to your own country, and care little for
the sorrows or the fate of those you leave behind."

Colenna had walked away some little distance, to examine a shield that
he thought was not quite so bright as it should be.

"Not care!" Jack exclaimed, impulsively. "Why, how can you say that? It
is that thought that grieves me all the time I am here; that makes me
doubt how I shall ever be able to make up my mind to leave. To leave
behind one's dearest----"

Zonella turned to him quickly, with a heightened colour and a bright
look. This was so unexpected that he stopped and hesitated.

"Well?" she said. "You said your dearest----"

"My dearest friend, Leonard--of course," he answered, looking at her in
some surprise.

But Zonella's face paled, and she turned away.

"Let us go," she said with a shiver, as though a cold wind had blown
upon her. "This old gallery is kept locked up so much it gets to smell
musty, and makes one feel quite faint."




CHAPTER XXII.

SMILES AND TEARS.


One morning, Monella sought Leonard and reverted to their former
conversation about Ulama.

"You have well considered all the words I spoke to you, my son?" he
said. "Are you still of the same mind?"

"I had hoped that you knew me too well to think it necessary to ask the
question," Leonard said earnestly. "Since I first looked upon Ulama, my
love for her has been given past all recall. I have never wavered in my
resolution to remain here for her dear sake, if I may hope to gain the
king's consent."

"Then," returned Monella, "the king would talk with you concerning it.
Let us go to him."

And, without further preface, he led the young man into the private
chamber of King Dranoa, where he left him.

The king, Leonard thought, looked ill and careworn; but he received him
with great kindness, and in a manner that quickly reassured the anxious
lover.

"It has been no secret to me for some time," said Dranoa, "that thou
hast looked with affection upon my child. She, too, hath spoken to me;
I see that she hath set her heart upon this thing, and I love her too
dearly to desire to thwart her wishes, unless for some weighty reason.
Here I see no such reason; for, though thou art a stranger, yet thou
art worthily recommended by one upon whose judgment I have learned to
place reliance. He that led thee hither is not a man to act lightly or
without full consideration in a matter of such paramount importance;
if thou hast gained his confidence and esteem, I doubt not that there
are good reasons for it. He hath the unerring eye that pierces to the
very heart, and that no hypocrisy, no cunning, can deceive. Were it
the case that my dominions were to-day the great empire over which
my forefathers held sway, I would seek such a man's advice in the
appointment of my generals, my ministers, my governors for distant
districts. Therefore do I feel that I can rely upon his judgment, even
in a matter so momentous as the choice of one to espouse my child and
to succeed me on my throne. And knowing, as I do full well, that the
'falloa' hath laid its hand upon me and that my days in this my land
are numbered, it is grateful to mine heart to feel that my child will
be comforted, when I am gone, by one whose affection for her is pure
and wholly hers, and who will have at his side a friend and counsellor
who will guide his youthful steps in the path that I would have him
follow. This conviction hath lifted from mine heart a grievous trouble,
and hath enabled me to bear without sorrow or regret the knowledge that
the fatal sickness hath taken hold upon me. For the fact that I shall
now soon quit this earthly life I care nothing in itself; it hath been
the fear of what would then befall that hath filled me with forebodings
and with fear. But, if I see--as I hope to see--the power of the Black
Coryon broken and destroyed for ever; my child wedded to one worthy of
her love and honour; my successor aided and advised by one so competent
to guide as is thy friend, then indeed I shall feel I can lay down the
burden of life with thanksgiving, and take my way to the great unknown
of the hereafter without fear, without regret, without a sigh; but,
instead, with the great content of one who feels he hath nothing more
to wish or hope for upon earth. For know, my son," continued Dranoa
with grave emphasis, "no man wisheth to prolong his life for that which
it hath yielded, but rather for that which he is hopeful it may yield.
The proof of this is easy; no man desireth to live his life over again;
therefore he is, at heart, and from actual experience, dissatisfied
and wearied with life; not charmed with it. Yet do many cling to it,
fatuously believing, in the face of all their own actual experience,
that it shall yet, in the future, afford them joys and gratifications
they have never found in the past. These, my son, are the words of one
who hath lived long enough to gain the wisdom that teacheth how to sift
the wheat from the chaff."

Dranoa paused, and remained silent awhile. Then he resumed, with a
change of tone,

"But I wish not to weigh down thy young imaginings with the sober
knowledge that belongeth not to thine years but to mine. It will
be sufficient to give thee counsel that is more suited to the
circumstances. Therefore I say this to thee: thou hast a good heart and
good instincts--trust them, follow them honestly; and leave the rest
to the Great Spirit that ruleth over all. And now I have but one more
thing to say; it were better for the present that this that is between
us were not known openly. Personally, that will not concern thee. When
the time hath come, I will myself announce it to my people. Meanwhile,
thy mind will be at rest with the knowledge of my approval of thy suit."

Leonard gratefully poured out his thanks to the kind-hearted king; then
went to seek Ulama.

He found her sitting alone in an apartment that overlooked the lake, so
deep in thought that she did not hear his coming. She was leaning on
the window-sill gazing pensively upon the beauties of the scene that
lay outspread before her.

But Leonard thought, as he caught sight of her and stayed his steps
upon the threshold, that she herself was the fairest creation of all,
posed as she was with that unconscious grace and charm that seemed
with her to be innate. For a full minute he stood in silence; then,
still without moving towards her, he softly called her name, as though
fearing to approach her till he had permission.

She turned her head towards him with no surprise, but with a look of
sweetest pleasure in her gentle eyes.

"I did not hear you," she said dreamily, "and yet--I know not why--I
was looking for your coming."

"And what were you thinking of so profoundly, sweet Ulama?"

"I was thinking," she replied, "how much more beautiful our lake and
its surroundings have seemed to me of late. I scarce noticed them
before; I suppose because I have known them all my life. Yet, now
that you have pointed out some of their beauties, I not only feel and
appreciate them, but I note many others on all sides that I never saw
before. It is very strange! I wonder why it is?"

"It is _love_, Ulama," Leonard said, coming quietly to her side and
laying his hand lightly on her shoulder. "Love can make the plainest
works of nature beautiful; small wonder then if it makes those that are
really so display new and unsuspected charms. It is because love has
taken up his dwelling in your heart that you now see new beauties in
these familiar scenes."

But Ulama shook her head sagely, and smilingly made answer,

"You know you told me that the first time you saw our lake you deemed
it the fairest spot on all the earth. And you did not know me then, so
could not love me. How then can what you say explain it?"

Leonard laughed and took her hand in his.

"You forget that I had seen you in my dreams and had loved you
long before," he said. "Perhaps some instinct told me that here I
should find the abode of her who already had my heart. Or, if that
explanation does not please you, here is another. Love and sympathy are
inseparable; you admire, now, things that you thought little of before,
because you see that _I_ admire them."

"Yes; that may be," Ulama admitted, with a thoughtful look. "But then,
it does not explain why _you_ should see beauties where _I_ did not. I
think you must have a quicker appreciation of the beautiful in nature
than is given to me."

"It may be so; and that in turn explains how it came about that I was
so quick to realise the beauty of the fairest daughter of Manoa!" And
Leonard's look was so tender, so full of loving admiration, that it
brought a rosy glow to Ulama's cheek. "And it also reminds me that I
sought you here to tell you something of importance, something that has
brought joy and gladness to my heart. I have just been talking about
you with the king."

The colour in the girl's cheek grew deeper; and now she turned her
glance again upon the landscape that lay sleeping in the morning
sunlight.

"Dear love," continued Leonard, "think what it means to me--to both of
us, I hope--when I tell you that the king has given me permission to
ask you to give yourself to me! Ah! Not only has he done that, but he
has done it in a manner--accompanied it with kind words of trust and
confidence that have filled my whole heart with gratitude. He speaks as
though I had already _proved_ that which I can only hope to show in the
future--my true desire to make myself worthy of your love. His kindness
and many marks of friendship towards one who is but a stranger here
have overwhelmed me. I feel the whole devotion of my life to you and
him can scarce repay such generous, ungrudging proofs of his confidence
and favour."

"You have a good friend in Monella," Ulama said quietly. "He never
fails to speak well of you when occasion offers. And he is one of our
own race, and has had great experience of the world outside, of which
we know nothing; and my father knows he can rely on his opinion."

"Yes, I know that is true, dear love, and my heart burns with gratitude
to him too. And now, beloved"--and he put his arms round her and drew
her to him--"may I not think of you as all my own? Let me hear you say
with those dear lips that you know now what love is, that it has sprung
up unforced in your pure heart; let me hear you say, 'Leonard, I love
you!'"

And, as he drew her closer to him and her head nestled upon his
shoulder, a whisper, that seemed but a faint sigh, breathed softly the
words so sweet to hear for the first time from a loved-one's lips--"I
love you!"

Later in the day Leonard told Templemore of his interview with the
king; and, as he did so, a look came over his face that, as his friend
expressed it to himself, "did one's heart good to see, even if but once
in a lifetime!"

"In your happiness I too feel happy, dear old boy," he said. "And I
should have little concern, for the time being, if only those at home
knew we were alive and well. As it is, the thought of their anxiety
troubles me unceasingly."

"Let us hope our signal flares were seen and will be reported," Leonard
answered. "I think they must have been seen; and, if so, Carenna is
sure to hear of it, and will find some way of sending word."

This referred to what they had done to carry out Leonard's suggestion.
After some perseverance in watching from the spot they had selected,
they saw, one evening, camp fires far out on the savanna. At once they
made their signals with small heaps of powder, and these they repeated
several times. No response whatever came; nor did they expect any.
There was nothing for it but to wait patiently in the hope that their
signals had been seen.

Then ensued a time, lasting many weeks, which was almost uneventful. To
Leonard and Ulama it was one uninterrupted dream of blissful happiness.
To Templemore it was pleasant and interesting, for he found plenty to
engage his mind. He studied the designs of the chief buildings; of the
bridges that spanned the streams that fed the lake. In the arches and
general construction of these he formed engineering ideas that were new
to him. He visited often the great waterfall that formed the outlet
of the lake, and declared that the sight of the vast body of water
shooting out in its leap of two thousand feet, its deep, thundering
roar, and the play of colour when the sun shone into the mist and
spray, made up a combination that threw Niagara itself--which he had
seen--into the shade.

One day, when Ulama and Zonella were alone together, the former thus
addressed her friend,

"Sometimes of late I have fancied there has been some unpleasant
passage between you and Leonard's friend. I myself am so fortunate, so
happy, that I like not to see those about me otherwise. I would have
all my friends as happy as myself." And she took Zonella's hand and
rubbed her face affectionately against it. "Tell me, Zonella, have you
two quarrelled?"

For a moment Zonella's face, usually so pleasant to behold, looked hard
and almost fierce. Then it softened, and, with a loud cry, she threw
her arms around Ulama; she hid her face in the gentle bosom, and burst
into a torrent of impassioned tears.

It was some time before Ulama, greatly surprised as well as pained and
puzzled, could understand the meaning of this outburst; but presently
Zonella, growing somewhat calmer, sobbed out,

"Ah! _You_--you little know, little think what I have suffered. He
cares no more for me than he does for you--perhaps less. His heart is
elsewhere; he is set upon going away from our land, and only his regard
for his friend delays him."

Ulama's beautiful face bent over Zonella's, and her tears fell upon the
other's cheek as she pressed her lovingly to her bosom.

"Alas! Alas! My poor Zonella! And is it possible that love, which has
been so sweet to me, should bring to you but pain and suffering? I
almost fear for my own happiness; that my selfishness in yielding to
it has blinded me to what was going on with the others. But it never
occurred to me that love that is to me so wonderful in the joy and
pleasure it confers, could also be the cause of misery and sorrow.
And yet," she added thoughtfully, "you are not without one to love
you. Poor Ergalon has long been faithful to his love for you. Oh, how
strange and contrary it all seems! Poor fellow! Perhaps you have made
him suffer even as you yourself have suffered. Can his love not console
you? I know so little myself that what I say may be only foolishness,
yet----"

Zonella smiled faintly, and shook her head. Then she kissed the other
tenderly.

"Let us say no more, my dear," she said. "I am sorry I gave way as I
did; but you took me by surprise. Perhaps, too, your implied advice is
wise. It might be better to try to love the one you _know_ does truly
love you, than to fret your heart out after one who loves you not, and
who is beyond your reach. At least, as you say, there _is_ one in the
world who loves me."

Thus the time sped on. Monella was much away; sometimes for a week
together; so the young men saw comparatively little of him. Templemore,
on one occasion, expressed a wish to visit Myrlanda with him, but
Monella said there were difficulties in the way.

"It is better you two should remain here for the present," he declared.
"At a future time, let us hope it may be different."

But one day Monella came to him with a look of gravity that at once
aroused his interest.

"It is time," he said, "that I should show you something of the truth,
that you may understand what lies before us. Can you brace up your
courage and your nerve to stand a severe trial?"

Templemore opened his eyes in astonishment.

"Need you ask?" he answered. "Have you ever known me wanting in
courage?"

"Ah, no. But this that I refer to requires courage of a different sort.
Yet it must be faced. But I warn you it will be a shock. Make up your
mind to a test that will tax all the nerve you can summon to your aid."

"And Leonard too?" Jack inquired, wondering.

"No. Say nothing to him. Let his dream be happy while it may. Be ready
to come out with me to-night, when Ergalon shall come to seek you. And
bring your rifle."




CHAPTER XXIII.

THE DEVIL-TREE BY MOONLIGHT.


It was about ten o'clock when Templemore, with Ergalon as guide, came
out from the king's palace by a side-entrance that was little used, and
the door of which the latter now opened with a key. Outside, at a short
distance, they found Monella pacing up and down.

Before leaving, Templemore had told Leonard just so much as would
explain his absence; then had managed to slip away unobserved by their
friends of the king's court.

The night was fine but chilly, and all three were muffled up. In the
sky overhead the moon shone calm and clear, lighting up the valley
with great distinctness; but across its face wild-looking clouds were
scurrying, showing that a strong wind was blowing up above, though
little of it was felt below. Only now and then an eddying gust would
sweep down the hillside and stir the trees around them, then die away
with a rustling sigh or a low moan.

Ergalon led the way; skirting the town he took a roundabout road that
Templemore soon saw led to the neighbourhood of the scene of their
adventure with the devil-tree, though they were approaching it from a
different direction. Finally, they entered a thick wood that covered
a steep hill; and now Templemore's companions made signs to him to
observe strict silence and to proceed as quietly as possible. When they
had reached the summit of the slope, and stood on the ridge within the
shadow of the trees, which here ceased abruptly, Templemore uttered a
half-smothered exclamation. Instantly, he felt Monella's heavy hand
upon his shoulder grasping him with a grip of iron; and it brought to
him the recollection of the caution he had received.

"Whatever you see or hear," Monella had rejoined, "you must remain
absolutely quiet and utter no sound; do nothing that might betray our
presence."

What had excited Templemore's surprise was the fact that he found
himself looking down into the great amphitheatre in which stood the
well-remembered tree. Its long trailing branches were still moving
about swiftly in their strange, restless fashion; but most of the
shorter and thicker branches were curled up at the top of the trunk
in the same kind of _knot_ as they had formed after carrying thither
the body of the puma. Viewed in the bright moonlight, the tree was
a hideous monstrosity that had yet a certain terrible fascination
which attracted and retained the sight while it revolted and repelled
the mind. The coiled branches upon the top reminded one irresistibly
of the snakes entwined round the head of the Medusa; they formed
a kind of crown, of a character suitable to the frightful monster
whose formless head, if one may so term it, they encircled. The
appearance of the whole thing was repulsive, ghastly, ghoulish. There
was that in the mere form and outline of this gruesome wonder of
the vegetable world that instinctively aroused aversion. Its naked
branches--that in ordinary circumstances could belong only to a dead
tree--its colour--half funereal, half of a deep blood-tint almost
unknown amongst botanical productions--its never ceasing movement,
so suggestive of an everlasting hunting after prey, of an insatiable
craving for its hateful diet of flesh and blood, of sleepless hunger,
of tireless rapacity and relentless cruelty--all these made up an
unnatural creation that appalled the instincts and chilled the very
blood of those who looked upon it. This had been the feeling, or
combination of feelings, that had made itself felt in Templemore's mind
when he had first seen the spectacle by daylight; it impressed itself
much more strongly now that he saw the tree in the cold moonlight--now
standing out clear and well-defined, now plunged into semi-obscurity,
as the hurrying clouds chased each other across the sky above and threw
their fleeting shadows beneath.

From the spot where the three men stood a clear view was presented of
the opposite side of the enclosure--_i.e._, of the side nearest to
the tree, which was there sufficiently close to the main terrace for
its branches to sweep over it; but the terrace was here protected by
a covered-way or verandah formed of metal gratings, the interstices
in which were small enough to keep the dreadful writhing snake-like
branches from pushing through them. When Templemore had seen the place
before, this part of the terrace had been open; for the metal screens,
or gratings, were, in reality, sliding shutters that could be withdrawn
into grooves in the rock beyond. Here, at the end of the covered-way,
was a gateway that formed the entrance to the labyrinth of caverns and
galleries in the cliff in which Coryon and his adherents lived.

These sliding screens were movable at the will of those within the
gateway. They could be either moved along in their grooves and thus
protect those traversing the covered-way, or withdrawn, so that the
branches of the fatal tree, in that case, guarded the entrance most
effectually; for no man might then venture to approach the gateway and
live.

Underneath, there were cells in the terrace, also within reach of
the tree; and screened off, in like manner, by sliding grated doors.
Through these gratings came faint beams of light.

Templemore noted all these things; yet, while his gaze wandered to
them, each time the tree itself attracted it again and seemed to hold
it spell-bound; and he waited--waited, hardly daring to breathe; waited
for he knew not what; waited as one expectant and oppressed by a dim
unshapen foreshadowing of some new and nameless horror.

Nor was it without reason; for, slowly, the coiled 'crown' unfolded,
and _something_ came little by little into view. Gradually the
_something_ rose out of the hollow in the trunk, was carried up clear
of it, then lowered over the side towards the ground. In shape it was
cylindrical, and of a colour that could not be discovered in the fitful
moonlight. Soon it was deposited upon the ground, and the branches that
had lowered it released their hold, and it remained for a brief space
untouched. Then other branches crept up to it with tortuous twistings
and, coiling round it, raised and swung it to and fro, then quickly
dropped it. Anon, yet other branches would do the same; only, in their
turn, to drop it or to hand it on to others. Thus was it passed about;
now lifted high in the air by one end, then by the other, anon dangled
horizontally in mid-air. In time it made the circuit of the tree; but
each branch, or set of branches that laid hold of it, rejected it
eventually, as though, by some fell but unfailing instinct, they knew
there was nothing left in it to minister to their hateful appetite.
And all the while the shadows came and went, and the moon looked down
between them and lighted up the hideous scene.

Meantime, from out the dark and filthy water and thick slime of the
large pool a few hundred yards away, crawled uncouth monsters the
like of which Templemore had never looked upon, save, perhaps, in
some fanciful representations of creatures said to have existed in
pre-historic times. These mis-shapen reptiles were from ten to twelve
feet in length. They had heads and tails like crocodiles, and in many
other respects resembled them; but in place of the usual scales they
were covered with large horny plates several inches in diameter; and in
the centre of each plate was a strong spine or spike, thick at the base
but sharp at the point, and four or five inches long.

These creatures crawled up to the fateful tree; and it was quickly
evident that they came to claim their share in the foul repast--the dry
husk and bones from which the tree had sucked the rest. Their armour
made them safe against the tree; for the branches no sooner touched
their bodies than they recoiled, baffled by the sharp points they
everywhere encountered. Two or three of these horrid reptiles began to
drag the dead body towards their haunt, and finally carried it away,
but not without several tussles with the twisting, curling branches
which seemed loth to relinquish their prey; or, perhaps, wished to play
with it a little longer, as a cat might with a mouse.

Monella had handed his field-glass to Templemore, still keeping a hand
upon his shoulder. The young man placed it to his eyes, and in an
instant gasped out,

"Great heavens! _It is a human body!_"

Yes!--if that may be so called which was but the mutilated husk of
what had once been a living, breathing, human being! But now there was
little left beyond a shapeless form!

Templemore felt sick, and almost reeled; but Monella's grasp up-held
him, and was a silent reminder that he was expected to master his
emotions, however strong and painful they might be.

"It is no time to give way," Monella whispered in his ear. "Wait and
watch!"

It was, however, almost more than Templemore could do. He felt like
Dante led by his guide to witness the tortures of the damned. But here,
as it seemed to him, was a scene that rivalled in horror, if not in
agony, even the scenes in the 'Inferno.' He set his teeth and clenched
his hands; his breath was laboured, and his heart almost stood still.
But for Monella's hold upon his shoulder he must have fallen.

But now there came out of the covered-way two figures; they stood on
the terrace and bent their gaze upon the scene, silent and motionless.
They were dressed in flowing robes of black, or some dark colour, that
were emblazoned on the breast with a golden star.

Grim, weird figures were they; their dark forms showing sharply against
the light-coloured rocks behind them, the while they gazed with cruel
composure upon the ghastly contention between the loathsome reptiles
and the tree.

When it was ended, and the beasts had disappeared with their prey into
the dark waters of the pool, one of the figures on the terrace put a
whistle to his mouth, and a low piping sound reached the ears of the
concealed watchers.

Immediately a rumbling noise was heard; and one of the sliding gratings
beneath the terrace rolled back, thereby disclosing a cavernous
cell, in which was a lighted lamp on a rough table. Then a figure
seated by it, his face buried in his hands, sprang up with a loud
cry, and retreated into the thick gloom beyond. But the terrible
trailing branches swept in after him, twined round his legs and
threw him down, then quickly drew him out feet foremost. Vainly he
shrieked, and clutched at this and that; at the table, at the edge of
the sliding door; relentlessly, inexorably, he was dragged from one
futile hold to another, upsetting the lamp in his struggles, till he
was outside. Other branches swooped down upon him, coiling round him
in all directions, and stifling his cries as, slowly, with an awful
deliberation and absence of hurry, or even of the appearance of effort,
he was hauled high into the air and disappeared into the hollow of the
fatal tree. The great branches silently arranged themselves into their
knot-like circle; at another sound of the low whistle the sliding door
returned to its place with a sullen rumble, and the two dark-robed
spectators turned and left the place.

Then Monella and Ergalon also came away; and it is no disparagement
of Templemore's courage or 'nerve' to state that they had almost to
carry him between them. When they had got to a safe distance, Monella
placed him on a boulder, and held to his lips a flask containing a
strong cordial. Templemore, who had been on the point of fainting, felt
revived by it at once; the liquid seemed to course quickly through his
veins, and the feeling of deadly sickness, after a time, passed away.

Monella, meanwhile, contemplated him with compassion and concern, but
said no word. Presently Templemore gasped out,

"What horrors! What frightful, cold-blooded atrocity! What a race
of foul fiends! Great heavens! To think such things go on in this
fair land--a land that seems so peaceful, so contented, so free from
ordinary pain and suffering!"

"Ah, my son," replied Monella, and there was an indescribable
sadness in his tones, "_now_ you can understand the great horror in
the land; that which has oppressed it for many long ages; that casts a
gloom upon people's lives; that turns to gall and bitterness what, but
for it, would be a life of innocent enjoyment."

  [Illustration: "OTHER BRANCHES SWOOPED DOWN, COILING ROUND HIM."
    [_Page 252._]

"But why----?" Templemore exclaimed almost fiercely; but the other
checked him.

"I think I know what you would say," Monella went on. "You would know
two or three things, I think. To the first question (as I read it)
I reply that the reason you have not heard of this thing from other
people is that they have learned, from long habit, never to refer to
it, even to one another. Almost incredible, you think? Not more so than
are many things that happen in your own life, in your own country. I
could name many known to all, yet alluded to by none--often wrongly, as
I hold. Still, there is the fact. It is the same here. This horror in
the land broods over, enthrals the people; yet, because they hold it in
such dread, they make an affectation of pretending not to know of its
existence; perhaps, in mercy to their children.

"Next, it surprises you that _I_ have not told you sooner. The answer
is simple. You are not like myself; I am one of this people; you are
but a sojourner in the land--a visitor. I had the desire to make your
sojourn here as pleasant as it could be; that your interest in the many
curious things you see about you should not be lessened, nor your stay
here rendered unhappy by the knowledge of that which you have seen
to-night--the earlier knowledge of which could have done no good to any
one.

"Lastly, you naturally desire to know why, in that case, I have now
chosen to enlighten you. For this reason: the time is approaching when
certain plans of mine and of the king's will be completed, and when I
devoutly hope we may be able, with God's help, to end this thing for
ever. In that I shall ask you to help us--I hope you will aid us all
you can."

"I will," said Templemore impetuously. "Against such a hellish crew as
that I am with you heart and soul. I think I begin to understand----"

"Yes, I never doubted your readiness to take part with us. But it was
necessary to give you absolute proof of what goes on, that you might
understand those with whom we have to deal. You have now seen for
yourself----"

"Ay, I have seen!" Jack shuddered.

"And will now understand that, when the time comes to extirpate
this serpent brood, there must be no hesitation, no paltering, no
half-and-half measures, no mercy. It will be of no use to kill the old
snakes and leave the brood to grow up again, or eggs to hatch. Do you
take in my meaning?"

"Yes, and think you will be right and well justified."

"Good. If you wonder why, knowing all this, I have done nothing
heretofore, it is that the king's plans could not sooner be matured.
Meantime we have stayed the horror for a while."

Jack uttered an impatient exclamation.

"Oh, yes," Monella declared, "we _have_, and you have helped to do it.
These wretched creatures you have seen sacrificed to this horrible
'fetish-tree' of theirs, are their own soldiers--those who escaped from
us by running away. They deserve no pity. They themselves have given
many an innocent victim--even women and children--to that tree----"

"I know that to be true," Ergalon interposed.

"The truce we forced on Coryon," resumed Monella "has had this effect
at least--it has saved the lives of numbers of poor creatures who would
have been seized and sacrificed during the time that we have been here.
Instead of that, however, the arch-fiend Coryon has had to content
himself with making victims of his own wretched myrmidons by way of
punishment for their running away from us. They are as bad as he--very
nearly. At any rate they are not worth your pity."

"Well, I am glad to hear that, at least," said Templemore. "It takes
away a little of the load of horror that turned me sick. Truly, of all
the diabolical atrocities that the mind of man in its depths of cruelty
and wickedness ever conceived----"

Ergalon shuddered now in his turn.

"I can look on at the sacrifice of victims such as these," he said
gravely, "because I know that every one of them has deserved his fate
by acts of cruelty; but when it is a case, as it has been in the past,
of women, young girls, and poor little children----"

"For Heaven's sake say no more," Jack entreated; "I begin to feel sick
again at such suggestions! I will fight to the death against such
wretches. As it is, for the rest of my life I shall see before me in
my dreams what I saw to-night. Surely no wilder phantasy, no more
outrageous, blood-curdling nightmare ever entered the most disordered
brain. And now it will haunt me to my life's end!"




CHAPTER XXIV.

TRAPPED!


One day the king announced his intention to fix a day for Leonard's
formal betrothal to Ulama according to the usage of the country.
Immediately the people began preparations to do honour to the event;
and congratulations and marks of friendship and goodwill were showered
upon the young couple by all those who were well affected towards the
king.

In the opposite camp, however, as might be expected, the announcement
was differently received; and, indeed, the crafty Coryon took advantage
of it to sow dissension among some of the people, and to suggest
opposition to the proposal. His adherents had certain supporters in the
land; people who bought their own security by aiding Coryon secretly
against their neighbours. This was why the king had shrunk from
pushing matters to the extreme against the priest. He knew that these
half-hearted or doubtful ones were quite as likely to side with Coryon,
at the last moment, as with himself, and that thus a civil war would be
inaugurated.

Monella, since he had come into the country and espoused the king's
side, had thrown more energy and method into the cause than had been
previously bestowed upon it. Through the Fraternity of the White
Priests, and their covert friends and sympathisers, and through
Ergalon, who had secretly gained over some of Coryon's people,
an active work had been carried on amongst all classes, and with
satisfactory results. But Coryon, on his side, had been busy too;
though hitherto with less success. Now, however, he found a useful aid
in the objection many felt to seeing the king's only daughter wedded
to one who--as it was cunningly suggested to them--was a stranger,
an adventurer, come from no one knew where, and unable to show such
evidence of descent and other qualifications as should entitle him to
seek alliance with the daughter of their king.

But Coryon's emissaries worked silently and unseen; and there was
nothing outwardly to show that two undercurrents were gradually gaining
strength and approaching that point whence the slightest accident might
bring them into active opposition.

Indeed, in announcing the proposed betrothal, the king had, for once,
acted directly against Monella's advice. The latter had counselled that
the matter should be kept secret until the contest with Coryon--now in
abeyance--had been finally decided; for he foresaw the use to which
Coryon would put it.

Leonard and Ulama were too much taken up with each other and with their
own happiness to trouble themselves about the 'pros and cons' that had
weighed in the minds of Monella and those who thought with him. That
the effect of the proclamation would be to hasten his marriage was, of
course, sufficient to commend it to Leonard; and he left all the rest
to others.

Templemore knew not sufficient of what was going on around him to
have any opinion upon the subject. Since the night when the real use
to which the great devil-tree was put had been revealed to him, he
had been very unhappy. He felt as might one who had been slumbering
peacefully in sight of a terrible peril, to whose existence he had
suddenly been awakened. Not that he had any fear for his own safety;
yet he was filled with a nameless dread, a vague sense of horror and
distrust, of unreality, in the life about him. He could not but realise
that there would be no real peace, no security for life or property,
until an absolute end had been put to Coryon and his atrocious crew,
and their abominable fetish-tree destroyed. But when would that be?
he wondered. His sense of disquiet was increased by having to keep
from Leonard the knowledge he had gained, and being thus debarred
from discussing matters with him. Not, however (as he acknowledged to
himself), that that would have been of much advantage; for Leonard was
too much absorbed in 'love's young dream' to be likely to discuss such
things coolly and critically.

Three days before that fixed for the ceremony of betrothal, which
was to be marked by a still grander entertainment, the king gave a
preliminary _fête_. There was much feasting for all and sundry; boats,
gaily decorated with flowers and banners and coloured streamers, glided
to and fro upon the lake; the young people skilled in diving from great
heights into the water with their parachute aids, contended for prizes,
and there were many other forms of gaiety and festivity.

Leonard and Ulama, seated upon a terrace, looked upon the scene, and
waved their hands in frequent recognition of friendly faces and signals
here and there amongst the crowd. Ulama's lovely face was radiant,
and the soft light in her gentle eyes, her pleased acknowledgment of
the tokens of affection and the good wishes she received on every
side, and her grateful smiles for all, were charming to behold. Her
wondrous grace and beauty seemed, if possible, enhanced by her
half-shy, half-proud glances, and the flush that mounted to her cheeks
when she turned her eyes with love on Leonard. Never before, even in
that country where the charms of the daughters of the land exceed the
average, had such a vision of lovely maidenhood and such rare beauty
been beheld. And yet all those who knew her, loved her as much for the
innocence and sweetness that beamed ever in her face and guided all her
thoughts and words and actions, as for the physical perfection that
compelled their admiration.

She stole her little hand into her lover's and sighed quietly.

"I am so happy, and yet my eyes are full of tears. And I feel half
frightened too; frightened lest my happiness should be too great to
last. Is it wrong, then, to be happy, think you? It almost seems so,
when I know so many others are unhappy."

Leonard fondly pressed her hand, and gazed deep down into her eyes.

"If you feel happy in your love, dear heart," he answered, "it is
because you love so much; and surely to love cannot be wrong, or to
take pleasure in it. Besides, in that you think so much of others you
but show your sweet unselfishness. Therefore, trouble not yourself
about the regrets for others that accompany your love. For, if to-day
they sorrow, they have had their times of happiness in the past, or may
have them in the future."

"It may be so," replied Ulama. "I doubt whether in all the world there
is another maiden who loves as I do, and therefore who could know the
dread that weighs me down. But as for me--ah, I tremble at my own great
joy, and fear it is too great to last. And every one is so kind to me
and seems so rejoiced to see me happy--that--that I can hardly keep
from crying."

And for a brief minute the gentle-hearted girl placed her hands before
her face to hide her tears--tears that were born of the great gladness
of her love and her tender sympathy for others.

And so for these two the day passed, like many that had gone before it,
in a blissful dream; but it was a dream from which they were soon to be
roughly awakened to the dark knowledge of what wickedness can achieve.

For, amid the feasting and among the revellers, were evil beings
who had plotted in their black hearts to kill the joy of the
gentlest-hearted maiden that ever with her sweetness brightened this
sorrow-laden earth; wretches that even then were spinning around her
the treacherous web designed by the fell Coryon to end her dream of
happiness for ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Templemore woke up the next morning he gazed about him in
surprise. He was not in his usual sleeping apartment; but, instead, in
some room that was strange to him. It was small, dingy and ill-lighted,
and the couch upon which he found himself was not that on which he
had lately slept. He sprang up and, in vague alarm, looked round for
his clothes and his arms; the clothes were there, but there was no
revolver, and his rifle was nowhere to be seen. Even his sword and
dagger, that formed part of his usual dress, had been removed. Dressing
himself hastily, he rushed to the door, but it was fastened.

"Great heavens!" he exclaimed, "I am a prisoner; my rifle and pistol
have been taken away in my sleep. Oh, what, what has happened to
Leonard? What can it all mean?"

He hammered at the door, but no answer came. Then he tried to look out
of the window, but it was too high for him to be able to see anything
through it but the sky. There was nothing to be done but wait; so
he sat down upon the bed, a picture of misery and bewilderment, and
forthwith began to formulate all sorts of theories and ideas to account
for what had happened to him.

When, after a long interval, the door was opened, a man entered whose
dress showed him to be one of Coryon's black-tunicked soldiers. He
brought in some food, and a pitcher and a mug, which he deposited upon
a small table, and was turning to go, when Templemore sprang up and
addressed him. He felt so incensed at the sight of this emissary of
Coryon's that he could indeed scarcely refrain from hurling himself
upon him, despite the fact that the man was armed. But just outside the
door, as he could see, were other soldiers; he could hear, too, the
clank of their arms, so he knew that to attack the one before him would
be worse than useless.

"What is the meaning of this?" he demanded.

The man, who was just on the point of going out, turned back for a step
or two, and then said in a low tone,

"You are the prisoner of the High Priest Coryon."

"But how, and why, and where?"

The man shook his head quietly. He was not an ill-favoured fellow, and
regarded his prisoner in a half-friendly manner, Templemore thought.

"You are still in the king's palace," he continued, "but your friend
and the princess have been taken away to Coryon's abode."

"Taken away to his place? Great God help them and help us all,
then!" Jack moaned, as the picture of what he had seen there that
well-remembered night rose up before his mind. "And how has all this
come about? and where is Monella, and where is the king?"

"I may not talk to you," the soldier answered. "I have disobeyed orders
in telling you thus much. But Ergalon was a friend of mine and I know
that he is a friend of yours." And he went out, closing and fastening
the door behind him.

Here was terrible news! Leonard and Ulama prisoners of Coryon; perhaps
immured in one of those awful dungeons within reach of the terrible
tree, where the very sight of what went on beyond those barred and
grated doors was enough to drive the bravest mad; and where, at any
moment, that whistle--a door run back--and then----!

"It's too dreadful--too horrible to think of!" Templemore exclaimed.
He sprang up and began pacing restlessly up and down. "I shall go mad
myself, if I dwell upon such thoughts."

The hours dragged slowly by till evening, when, just when it was
growing dark, the door was once more opened and the same man came in
and, looking at Templemore, made a sign to be silent. Then he returned
to the door and led in a muffled figure, and, without a word, retired.
The figure threw back a hood that covered the head, and Templemore,
with glad surprise, saw that it was Zonella.

He ran forward and took her hand in his.

"Zonella!" he exclaimed. "This is surprising, and gladdening too. It
does one good to see your face after all that I have been imagining.
Tell me--what does it all mean?"

She laid her finger on her lips and said in a hushed voice,

"It means that the cunning, treacherous Coryon has played a trick upon
us all, and made you prisoners. Your friend and our beloved princess
have been carried off, the king himself is kept a prisoner in his
room, and so are many of his ministers."

"And Monella and Ergalon?"

"Monella was away in Myrlanda, as you know, and so has escaped; and
Ergalon--who is free too, but in hiding--has sent a trusty messenger to
warn him."

"And you?"

"I am virtually a prisoner too. That is, I am forbidden to leave the
palace. But I am free to go about within it. The whole place is full of
Coryon's soldiers."

"Can you tell me how it was managed?"

"The 'loving cup' was drugged. All who partook of it fell into an
unnaturally heavy sleep. You remember almost every one throughout the
palace drank some, in honour of your friend and our poor princess.
Alas! alas! My dear, my loved Ulama!"

She sobbed bitterly, while Jack marched excitedly up and down the place.

"Is there no hope--nothing to be done?" he exclaimed despairingly.

"There is only one thing," was answered in a low, hesitating tone.

"What is that?" he asked eagerly.

"I have come to try to aid you. If you wrap up in this cloak and go out
quietly now, while it is half dark, you may get clear out of the palace
unobserved. One of my maids is waiting for me without, and will show
you the way. I warned her of my plan, and she is to be trusted."

"What! And leave you here in my place to suffer Coryon's vengeance?
Why, Zonella--dear, kind friend--what must you think of me?"

"I can think of nothing else," she answered simply. "And for me--I care
not. Whatever may befall me, _you_ will be able to get away; perhaps
even to serve your friend."

Jack took her hand in his, not noticing that she seemed to shiver under
the touch.

"Such an offer is too kind, too much, my dear, good friend," he said.
"It cannot be; we must try----"

"For _my_ sake, then," she exclaimed impulsively. "I would rather
die myself than see you carried off to yonder dens. Or"--she paused
confusedly, and then went on--"for your friend's sake. Think! Consider!
Do you refuse merely from any thought about me? Think what you might be
able to do for others--for your friend, for Ulama!"

Templemore passed his hand over his face; the tears were coming into
his eyes. When he tried to speak again, he felt half choking.

"You are a noble girl, Zonella," he answered with emotion; "and when
you appeal to me on _their_ behalf you cannot know how hard it is to me
to stay on here, knowing that I have the chance--just the chance--of
saving them. But it cannot be, dear friend, it cannot be; but--I thank
you. My whole heart thanks you." He pressed her hand, and turned
sorrowfully away.

Presently, she spoke again, this time in a different tone; indeed, her
voice sounded hard and strained.

"Then Ergalon shall risk his life for you," she said. "I know that
which will induce him to attempt what to-day he said could not be done.
I will seek him at once. For now, good-bye; do not go to bed, but be
ready, if you hear some one at the window. You can reach it, if you
stand up on the table." And, without further explanation, she left him.

Templemore sat for long pondering upon this strange interview, and
wondering too what she had planned; and the time seemed to drag
wearily while he waited for some signal at the window.

It was about midnight, as he judged, when there came a tap, tap from
the outside. He sprang on to the table; then by the dim light that came
through the window he could discern the upper part of a man's body
swinging on a rope.

"Is that Ergalon?" he whispered.

"Yes," came back the answer. "If I send you in a short rope and you
wait till I have gone down, you can then pull in the rope I am on, get
on to it, and come down yourself. Do you dare try it?"

"Yes."

"Then here it is. Now wait till you find you can pull this one in."

Templemore felt about and caught hold of a small cord that was hanging
inside the window--which was open to the air--and he pulled lightly
at it till he felt the strain upon the rope to which it was attached,
relaxed. Then he pulled harder, and a portion of a thicker rope came
inside. By its means he was able to climb up on to the sill. With
some trouble and manoeuvring he got outside and was soon sliding down
the rope, which Ergalon steadied from below. It was very dark, and he
descended amidst some trees where it was darker still. When he touched
the ground, at first, he could see nothing; but Ergalon turned on the
light of a bull's-eye lantern. It was one of those Monella had brought
with him, and lent by him to Ergalon.

A voice, that he knew to be Zonella's, whispered,

"That has been well done. Now what do you propose to do?"

"I must get down to the canyon by which we came into the mountain.
There we have left spare weapons. But I can't get down in the dark;
not even, I fear, with the lantern."

"There will be a moon later; perhaps that will help. Let us go in that
direction."

"What! you, too?" Jack asked in surprise.

"Yes, why not? I shall be as safe with you as in the midst of Coryon's
hateful minions, and I may be of service."

"You couldn't climb down that place and up again," Jack reminded her.

"Then I can wait near the top, and Ergalon can go with you to help you
carry what you want."

"But we shall be a long time, all day to-morrow."

"No matter, I will manage."

Then the three made their way with much difficulty, owing to the
darkness, to the top of the canyon. Here they sat and talked in guarded
voices till the moon had risen high enough to light the hazardous
descent.

Templemore learned how Coryon's plans had been carried out; how
Ergalon's escape had been due to his absence from the palace, awaiting
the return of a messenger from Monella. At a late hour, on his way back
to the palace, he had been warned by a friend amongst Coryon's people.
On this he had sent on the messenger to Monella to inform him of all
that had occurred. The man had been only just in time to get through
the subterranean road before Coryon's soldiers took possession of it
and closed it.

Templemore's escape had been planned by Zonella. She had smuggled
Ergalon into the palace and up to the roof disguised as one of her own
maids; and in this she had been aided by one of his friends amongst
the soldiers of the priest. Ergalon had at first objected strongly,
conceiving that the attempt was foolhardy and could not succeed; that
he would only lose his own liberty and, perhaps, his life, and that
Monella might be displeased. In short, he had considered himself bound
to do nothing that was in any way risky until Monella had communicated
with him. But Zonella had contrived, by some means, to persuade him;
and had herself stolen out and steadied the rope for Ergalon in his
perilous descent.

From his friend in the opposite camp Ergalon had learned one very
important thing--that nothing was likely to be done to Leonard or Ulama
till the day that had been named for their betrothal. That day Coryon
had fixed upon, with cruel irony, for the holding of a sort of trial,
the result of which would be a foregone conclusion.

"Therefore," said Ergalon, "if you can get back by the morning of
to-morrow" (it being then already morning) "you will be in time; though
I fear you will find it difficult to effect much good alone, and I
cannot yet tell when the lord Monella may be able to get through the
subterranean passage to come to your assistance."

"We will try, anyhow," said Jack, setting his teeth with grim
determination. "And, if I fail, we will die together. One can but die
once. I think it is possible to get back with a couple of rifles and
pistols and the necessary ammunition by the morning. If human effort
can do it, it shall be done; and I can then put a pistol into your
hands, too, my good friend."




CHAPTER XXV.

'IN THE DEVIL-TREE'S LARDER!'


Leonard awoke from a deep sleep, on the morning after the _fête_, to
find himself, like Templemore, in a place that was strange to him.

So profound had been the slumber induced by the drug that had been
mixed with the drink, that he had been carried all the way to Coryon's
retreat in absolute unconsciousness. When he at last woke up, he was
in one of the cells under the terrace within the reach of the great
flesh-eating tree.

No words can describe the horror and anguish that filled his breast
when, by degrees, he realised the dreadful truth. Not only did he
shudder at the thought of his own too probable fate, but the fear that
his sweet Ulama might share the same awful doom drove him almost to the
verge of madness. He cursed the false sense of security that had led up
to this terrible result. A few simple precautions would have frustrated
this treachery! But it was too late!

Through the grated door he could see the great devil-tree, hear the
swishing of its long, trailing branches, watch them come up to the
grating and search about over its face for some opening large enough
to penetrate, even trying to wriggle in through its small slits and
perforations. In the centre of the cell was a block of wood fixed
in the ground to serve as a table. A small stream of water ran down
from a pipe above and fell into a channel in the floor, and a pitcher
stood beside it. For chair there was a smaller log of wood; the 'bed'
on which he had found himself was simply a bag of straw whereon were
laid two or three rugs. An iron door shut off the back from an interior
gallery, and the cell was partitioned off from others, on each side, by
grated screens, like that in the front. The occupants of adjacent cells
could, therefore, see each other.

As Leonard looked round in astonishment and alarm, and exclaimed,
involuntarily, "Where am I?" a discordant peal of mocking laughter rang
out from the cell upon his right.

"Where is he! He doesn't even know where he is!" a harsh voice cried
out. "He--one of the gods that wielded the lightning and thunder! After
all, caught by Coryon, and brought here like the rest of us! Ha! ha!
ha!"

Leonard, shocked and amazed, went to the side whence the sounds
proceeded, and there saw, peering through the bars, a horrible face
that grinned at him with hideous sneers and wild-looking eyes. The hair
and beard were matted and dishevelled; the face and figure, so far as
he could make them out, looked gaunt and thin. He was dressed in the
black tunic with gold star that denoted one of Coryon's soldiers.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the mocking voice. "You don't know where you are,
eh? I'll tell you, my lord, son of the gods, that can kill us soldiers
with a magic lightning wand, but can't keep yourself out of Coryon's
clutches--you are in the 'devil-tree's larder'!"

"The devil-tree's larder!"

"Yes, my lord; the devil-tree's larder. That means that they have put
you here to keep you cool and in good condition, before they hand you
over to be food for their pet out there." And he pointed to the tree.

Leonard shuddered, and the awful truth of the man's statement forced
itself upon his mind, in spite of his wish to believe it too atrocious
to be possible. He went up to the door in the front and examined it. He
saw that it ran in grooves at the top and bottom.

"Ah," said the mocking voice behind him, "that's right. You see how
it's done now. They run that back from inside, sudden-like, some time
when you don't expect it; and in come the twisting branches that lay
hold of you, and out you go to make him a nice meal. Ha! ha! ha!"

Leonard turned and stared in helpless horror. Was it possible that
there was such cold-blooded, fiendish cruelty in the world? Yet--he
remembered the fate of the poor puma. He trembled, and turned sick and
faint; while the one in the next cell continued to jeer and mock at him.

"Where is your lightning-wand, my lord? Why have you not brought it
to try it on the tree? You managed to get _me_ brought here; and now
you've managed to get here yourself!"

"I got _you_ brought here? How? What then are you doing here?" Leonard
asked, his surprise overcoming his disgust.

"What am I doing here? Why, the same as you--waiting in 'the
devil-tree's larder' till I'm given to him for a meal--as you will be.
And it's all through you; because you killed some of us and we others
ran away; this is what they do with us."

Leonard shuddered again, while the man went to the stream of water
that, as in Leonard's cell, was pouring down from a pipe above, and,
filling the pitcher, took a long drink.

"Makes you thirsty, this sort of thing," he said, with another jeering
laugh. "You'll find that water there mighty handy if they let you stay
here long enough. Ha! ha! ha!"

The man was evidently in a state of high fever. The place was full of
foetid odours given off by the foul tree; and, apart from that, the
want of sleep would superinduce fever, if, indeed, it did not drive mad
the wretched occupants of the cells; for who could sleep for more than
a minute or two at a time in one of those dens, where, at any moment,
the door might be run back and the miserable prisoner delivered over
to the fatal branches? It was this constant, ever-present dread that
banished sleep, and must inevitably end in madness for the victims,
provided they were kept there long enough.

Then the thought flashed upon him that Ulama also might be an occupant
of one of these awful cells; and at that such a burst of grief and
agony came over him that he hid his face within his hands and groaned
aloud.

"Yah! don't give way like that, my lord. Being here's not so bad when
once you're used to it! Look at me! You don't see me worry and cry like
a great girl. I take it quietly; I've been too used to seeing others
here. Many's the time I've had the pulling back of these doors and have
seen a man or a woman hauled out squealing and kicking like an animal
going to be killed; and I've laughed at them. I thought it such fun!
And now those who used to help me and laugh with me, they're waiting to
see how I like it; and they will laugh at me, too, just the same. But I
don't care. What does it matter? It's nothing, I tell you, when you're
as used to it as I am."

The wretched creature thus trying to delude himself with boastful
talk and jeering at his fellow-captive, was himself, it was easy to
see, worked up into the highest state of nervous dread and fear. The
least sound made him start and look with straining eyeballs in the
direction from which it came. He kept going to the pitcher for draughts
of water, and never remained still for a single instant. If he sat down
for a short space, the twitching of a foot, or leg, or hand, spoke of
agitation within that would not be controlled.

Leonard turned from the sight with mingled feelings of disgust and
loathing and, going to the other side, looked through the grating of
the adjoining cell, to see whether it was occupied. And, looking, his
heart seemed to come up into his throat when he saw a silent female
form seated with its back to him. The exclamation that escaped him
caused the form to turn, when he saw that the woman was a stranger.
Her face was pleasing in its features, and good-looking, but had in
its expression such a burden of unspeakable horror and despair that
he shivered as he met her glance. At sight of it, for the moment, he
almost forgot his own misery, and he asked gently,

"And who then are you?"

For a few seconds there was no reply; then, in a voice that had in it
the suggestion of much sweetness, albeit now forced, and unnatural,

"I scarcely know. Once I was a happy young girl; then a well-beloved
and loving wife and mother; now I am only something with which to feed
yonder monster."

"Yes," continued the woman dreamily, "I was once good-looking, they
said. Certainly, my husband thought so; and that was enough for me. But
it was my curse, alas! for Skelda, the chief of the priests next to
Coryon, thought so too. He stole me away from my home and my children
and forced me to become one of his so-called wives. And now, because my
sorrowing and pining have seared and furrowed my good looks, even as
they had eaten into my heart, he has tired of me, and has sent me to
the fate that, sooner or later, we all come to here--all of my sex, at
least, as well as many of the other among those who are not priests.
Yet," she added, "it is but five years since they brought me here. What
I look like now you can see for yourself!"

Leonard looked at her with pity; and there came into his mind the
remembrance of Ulama's words of the day before--"It seems almost wrong
to be happy when I know so many others are unhappy"--and his own light
rejoinder. And he reproached himself in that he had been content to
bask in love and self-enjoyment while, close at hand, there were such
abuses, such direful sufferings. True, he had not actually known
their whole nature and extent; but he _had_ known of the so-called
'blood-tax'; and had heard enough to make it certain, had he given the
matter due consideration, that there were evils in the land that cried
aloud for remedy.

Then his thoughts reverted to Ulama, and he asked,

"Do you know aught concerning the Princess Ulama?"

"I know that she was to be brought to this place, and that she was to
be put into the cell I occupied before they brought me here yesterday.
It is underground; a long way from this part."

At least, then, the poor child, Leonard thankfully reflected, was not
in one of the cells in sight of the dreaded tree.

Presently he asked the woman whether she had known Zelus, the son of
Coryon.

"Ah yes! Who did not in this land?" was the reply. "The monster! A
great spasm as of relief and joy came upon us all--all the women, I
mean--when we heard of his death. He was the worst of them all, though
one of the youngest. No one was safe from him. Even the princess he
sought to bring here to treat as he had treated so many others!"

"I know. I killed him when he was in the very act of raising his
cowardly hand against the king's daughter," said Leonard quietly.

The woman turned and looked at him with more of interest in her manner
than she had yet shown. She scanned him closely.

"Then," she said, "you must be one of the strangers of whom we heard.
But you are young, and not, as I have been told, of our race. We heard
of one older, one who, it was said, belonged to our people. And when we
heard that, we all rejoiced; for surely, we said, he brings us tidings
of what all have been expecting. Therefore, we who were held here in a
bondage that is a daily, hourly torture, a never-ceasing degradation,
we welcomed your coming as a sign that the Great Spirit had at last
brought our long punishment to an end. I, even I, dared to hope I
should escape the fate that has befallen all others, and should live to
see again my husband and children before I die. But, alas! it was but a
dream--a delusive, passing hope, a thing too good to come in my time.
Four months have passed and nothing has occurred, though ye smote the
hated Zelus quickly; and even Coryon was filled with fear and dread.
Why have ye failed to do more, and, instead, fallen victim to Coryon?"

Ah! why? It was a question that now sank deep into Leonard's soul
and tortured him with vain regrets and self-reproach. For he had a
heart that swelled with kindness towards his fellows, and a tender
conscience; and the more he thought things over, the more difficult he
found it to feel that he was without blame. He had been too selfishly
wrapped up in his own personal feelings, he now acknowledged; too
little interested in those very matters that, as the king's future
son-in-law, should have taken, if not the first, at least a prominent
position in his mind. And then, to be ignobly trapped, at a time when
there was nothing but feasting and amusement in their minds! Their arms
taken from them--they who could have kept at bay all Coryon's soldiers
and dispersed them, had they but been vigilant and wakeful! It was
a cruelly humiliating thought--it was worse; for the child-hearted,
innocent Ulama, who had a right to rely on his protection, had been
sacrificed also to his self-abandonment and want of watchfulness.

Thus did Leonard reason, now that his opportunities had vanished. He
knew not what was the true explanation of the position in which he
found himself; but a vague, half-formed idea crept into his mind that
Coryon would hardly have ventured upon such a daring stroke unless he
had felt he could rely upon the support, or, at least, the indifferent
neutrality, of a certain proportion of the people. And if he, Leonard,
had shown more interest in the affairs of the people over whom he
was one day to be king, he might have gained so firm a hold on their
confidence and affections as would have rendered Coryon's schemes
hopeless from the very start.

But such thoughts, whether well or ill-founded, came now all too late.
Here he was, caged, and at Coryon's mercy. His relentless enemy had but
to give the signal and he would be consigned to an awful death.

He had some further talk with the woman, who told him terrible
tales of indescribable barbarities and iniquities perpetrated by the
priestly tyrants under the covering of their 'religion'; tales that
made the blood within him boil, and filled his soul with savage, though
helpless, indignation. Then he asked the woman's name, and was told it
was Fernina.

At last, he asked the question that, though often upon his tongue, yet
he had shrunk from giving voice to.

"And what do you suppose will happen--here?"

She sighed and shook her head, hopelessly, despairingly.

"Only what always happens," she answered, in a dull, listless tone.
"None that are once placed here ever escape the fatal tree; except that
sometimes they are carried up above and laid on what they call 'the
devil-tree's ladle.'"

"'The devil-tree's ladle?'"

"Yes; it is a contrivance on wheels; a kind of long plank shaped at one
end like a great spoon. Those who are to be given to the tree are laid
upon it, bound so that they cannot move, and then pushed out along the
stone-work till they are within reach of the branches; those who push
the plank at the other end being far enough away for their own safety.
It is part of the system of terrorism and torture here," Fernina added,
"to place some of us, at times, in rooms that are in the rock above,
and that overlook this place, and to keep us locked in there for days
and nights, that we may be cowed and frightened at the scenes that are
enacted here. Often, a hateful fascination compels you to become an
unwilling witness; in any case, you cannot avoid hearing the shrieks
and moans; imagination supplies the rest."

Leonard turned away, not caring to hear more, and sat down to brood,
eating his heart out with keen regrets, all now unavailing. The
jeering of the half-mad wretch in the other cell had ceased; he,
too, had fallen into a sort of brooding lethargy, and so was quiet;
but a constant tap, tap, tap, of one foot on the stone floor told he
was not asleep. Thus the hours dragged by in silence, save for the
intermittent, stealthy rustle of the branches outside, as they came
prowling over the face of the gratings in their sleepless seeking after
the prey they seemed to scent within.

Once, a small grating at the bottom of the door of each cell was
opened, and a platter with coarse food upon it was pushed in; then the
space closed up again. The sounds made them all, for the moment, start;
then they relapsed again into the stupor of despair. None touched the
food or even noticed it. But the man in the further cell had now seated
himself near the little stream of water and, every now and then, he
roused himself to take long draughts.

When it grew dark, a lighted lantern was pushed under the door into
each cell, as the food had been. Leonard felt drowsy and longed for
rest; yet was afraid to lie down or to close his eyes. Now and again
they even closed against his will in a short doze; but it was never of
long duration, and each time he woke it was with a renewed sense of the
horror of his situation.

He had just roused from one of these brief snatches of sleep, and had
had time to remember once more where he was, when a low rumble made
him spring up and look around. Then the man in the next cell gave an
awful cry--a cry that rang in Leonard's ears for many a day--and at the
same moment the grated door of his prison slowly began to move. In his
demented terror he banged himself against the partition between the two
cells, tried to get his fingers into the slits that he might cling to
it; then climbed up on to the wooden block in the middle of the cell.
But the rustling branches neared him, sought for him on every side, and
soon mounted the log and caught him in their deadly embrace. Slowly,
but irresistibly, while he never ceased his cries or his vain struggles
and clutchings, the coils around him tightened and dragged him out into
the darkness, where his cries gradually became weaker, and were finally
heard no more; and when they ceased, and he heard the door rolling
back, with dull rumbling, to its place, Leonard tottered to the pile of
rugs in the corner of his cell, and fell upon them in a swoon.

When he returned to consciousness a bright light was shining through
the grated door. He got up and, like one who is but a helpless
on-looker in a fevered dream, he went to the bars and gazed out. It
was bright moonlight outside, and there he saw the same ghastly scene
repeated that Templemore had witnessed a short time before. He saw
the dead body of the latest victim of the tree's insatiable thirst
for blood dangling amongst the branches; caught up, now by the neck,
and now by the feet, and passed on from one branch to another in what
seemed a new dance or sport of death; and finally carried off by the
great crawling reptiles that had come up to claim their share in the
repast.

While the scene lasted, Leonard seemed incapable of volition; his limbs
refused to obey the will of his reeling brain and to bear him away
from the sight. But, when the creatures had disappeared, he turned and
made his way once more to the low bed, where he remained in a state of
torpor till the day was far advanced.

After what seemed a long interval, he sat up and rubbed his eyes, after
the manner of one just awakened from the horror of a nightmare. Then he
saw the woman who occupied the next cell standing with her eyes fixed
on him; and, when she found he was once more awake and conscious, she
addressed him.

"I am sorry for you," she said. "Even in my own misery I am not so
blinded but that I can see that your burden of sorrow is a heavy
one--more than you can bear. Yet methinks, were I a man, I would not
thus give way to it. I am but a woman, but my greatest wish--since
nothing else is left me--is that I may see Coryon once more--stand
face to face with him--and show him that all his calculated cruelty
and subtle ingenuity of torture have not subdued my spirit, nor the
scorn that a heart conscious of having done no wrong can feel for such
as he. I would give him back look for look, hate for hate, as I have
before to-day; and make his wicked eyes quail before mine with the
consciousness that the spirit of one he has unjustly oppressed can
show itself greater than his own. But with _you_--he will but laugh at
you--for I feel, somehow, you will be taken from here to meet him. I
suspect he has sent you here first to crush your spirit with the sight
of the horrors that are perpetrated here. He--have you ever seen him?"

"No," Leonard answered, staring at her in amazement.

"Ah! then you know not what he is like. I tell you," the strange woman
went on, her eyes lighting up with unexpected fire, "he is a man whose
mere glance strikes terror into the souls of ordinary men. There is
that about him that makes you shrink as from some unearthly incarnation
of all the powers of evil; and in that he delights, yea, more, even,
than in torturing his victims."

Here she broke off abruptly; then resumed, in a different manner.

"I have been wondering whether you are he who was to have wedded the
princess?"

"Alas! yes. You have divined aright," Leonard answered sadly.

"Then," said the woman, with increasing warmth, that gained as she went
on an energy that was almost fierceness, "then, the greater the reason
you should throw off this weakness and gird up your strength to meet
the haughty tyrant and show him that your spirit is equal to his own.
In all his ill-spent time upon this earth--and they say it has been a
very long one--it is his boast and his pride that scarce any can meet
his glance without quailing under it. Think! Think how he will triumph
over you--how he will point the finger of scorn--turn the look of
cold contempt upon the one who aspired to be the future king of this
country--and _that_ means to stand on an equality with himself--and
yet, as he will declare, is but a weak, puling, or ordinary mortal.
Ah! would I were in your place! You can but die. But I would make him
feel that I had a heart, a spirit, more dauntless, more unconquerable
than his own. Ay! I would die knowing that for many and many and many a
year to come, the remembrance that he had met _one_ spirit he could not
intimidate or master would be to him an instrument of defeat and shame,
eating into his proud heart, even as the suffering he has caused to me
has gnawed into my own."

The woman spoke at the last with a force that almost electrified her
hearer. Leonard felt roused as, perhaps he had never been roused before.

"You are right, my friend!" he exclaimed, "and I thank you. As you
truly say, he who aspires to high things should show himself worthy
to achieve them, and not even the shadow of a dreadful death and
cruel sufferings should have the strength to cow his spirit in the
presence of this most cold-blooded and revolting tyrant. If I have
shown weakness, it was not from personal fear, but from thought of the
suffering of one dearly loved, and my self-reproach for having been
the unintentional cause of it. It is well that I met you; for you have
taught me how I should meet this Coryon!"

"And," said the woman, "if you want one unerring shaft to launch at
him--one that I know will pierce the armour of his pride and drive him
to the verge of madness--tell him you know one woman whose spirit more
than matches his; tell him that she is called Fernina."




CHAPTER XXVI.

CORYON.


At sunrise on the morning of the day that was to have witnessed
Leonard's public betrothal he was sitting staring gloomily, through the
grating of his cell, at the never-resting branches without, when the
sounds of drums, on which a long tattoo was being beaten, broke on his
ear. The sounds came from both near and far, some half-muffled in the
galleries and caverns of the cliff, others echoing from one side to the
other of the rocky enclosure till they died away in the far distance.

Since the previous morning nothing further had occurred; the woman was
still in the cell on one side of him; no new victim had been brought to
occupy the other.

The roll of the drums caused Leonard to start up and look about him.
He was haggard and worn from want of sleep, but his step was firm, and
his face was stamped with a look of quiet resolution that showed he had
taken to heart his fellow-prisoner's advice. When he rose up she spoke.

"It is as I thought," she said; "they are to have one of their
gatherings to-day, when the tree will be given its meal in sight of all
who are summoned to be present. That is why one of us was not given to
it last night, no doubt." And she gave a short, hard laugh, that was
far from pleasant to hear.

"No doubt it is your turn," she went on in a softer tone. "You must
summon all your fortitude. Be brave! If one must die, one needs not
show such craven fear as that half-mad wretch exhibited the other
night."

"You speak well, my good friend, and what you have said to me has
braced me up. Would that, before we part, I could say or do something
to serve or comfort you."

"That cannot be; only remember what I told you--if you want a taunt
to hurl at the tyrant's head, a taunt that will stab him through his
self-admiration, you know now what to say. Soon they will be here for
you. Ah!" here she broke off, as though a new thought had come to her.
"On these days they are all assembled outside--all the men. Only the
women and children are left within their dens. Oh, if I could but get
free for half an hour! I know some of their secrets, and could play a
trick upon them that would go far to square accounts between us. But,
of course," she added mournfully, "it is foolishness to think of it."

Overhead could now be heard the scuffling of many footsteps, and, anon,
more drum-beating, with much blowing of horns and trumpets. Next, there
were shouting and cheering, followed by what appeared to be a speech
from some one; but the words were not intelligible to the two anxious
listeners.

At one time the noise had brought a faint hope into Leonard's mind that
it might portend the approach of friends; but the words Fernina had
just spoken quickly dissipated any such idea.

Presently, steps were heard in the gallery outside, a key was inserted
in the lock, and two of Coryon's black-coated soldiers entered. They
were both armed with drawn swords; and one of them, addressing Leonard
in gruff accents, said,

"You are to come with us." Then, turning to his comrade, he asked,
"Have you the cord?"

"No," was the reply, "I thought you had it."

"And I thought you were bringing it. Go, get it."

The man went out.

Then he who had remained, raising a warning hand to Leonard, addressed
him in low, guarded tones.

"The lord Monella," he said, "is hastening to thine aid with many armed
followers; but he has been detained in the underground pass. Whether he
will arrive in time, I know not; if not and thou be harmed, thou wilt
be avenged."

"Who art thou, then?" asked Leonard.

"A friend of the lord Monella's."

"And my other friend--what of him?"

"He was a prisoner, but escaped, and has gone--I know not whither."

"Heaven be praised for that! Ah, I can guess where he has gone!" Just
then a sudden thought came into Leonard's head.

"See, friend," he said earnestly, "canst thou not turn the key in the
lock of the next cell and give the poor creature there one little
chance for liberty?"

"I do not know, but I will see. If the key fits, I might."

"Quick, then, ere thy fellow returns."

The man hastily took out the key and tried it in the lock of the
woman's cell; it fitted, and he unlocked the door; then withdrawing the
key, he replaced it in the door of Leonard's cell.

"Roll that log to the door to keep it close till you think it safe to
venture out," Leonard advised the woman. She had but just done so when
they heard the steps of the other soldier in the gallery.

"What is thy name, friend?" Leonard asked him in a whisper.

"Melta," the man answered; and then, when the other made his appearance
with some cord, he began to rate him for having been so long.

Leonard was bound in a loose fashion, just sufficient to prevent his
free use of either arms or legs, and led away. On his way out he said a
kindly word to Fernina.

"The Great Spirit help you," was the reply. "I have no fear for you
now; you will die with courage, if it be so fated. A heart that can
feel and think for a stranger in the midst of such distress as is yours
to-day is the heart of a brave man. But we may yet meet again."

Leonard shook his head sadly.

"I have no false hopes," he answered. "I do not expect that help can
now come in time. I may be avenged; that is the most I can hope for."

"Yes!" said the woman in a meaning tone; "you will be avenged; and so
shall I."

The man who had been sent for the cord laughed jeeringly at the woman
when she said this, but took no further notice of her; and the three
proceeded along the gallery till they came to some steps at the end.
Ascending these they entered a broader gallery or corridor above;
then, turning back, they passed out through the gateway and along
the covered-way, finally emerging on the main terrace of the great
amphitheatre.

Round the sides of the enclosure a large number of people were
gathered. Among these were black-coated soldiers to the number of,
perhaps, two hundred; the others, of whom there were from four to five
hundred, also carried arms of some sort, spears or swords. When Leonard
cast his eyes around and noted them, the heart within him sank, for he
saw how difficult would be a rescue, even with the armed followers that
the man Melta had said accompanied Monella.

In the centre of the great terrace, upon a high chair carved and
emblazoned, and with a great banner waving above his head, sat the
dreaded Coryon. Round him were grouped, first his nine priests in
black robes, and Dakla and others of his chief officers; then, ranks
of soldiers and, among them, some of the king's ministers and chief
functionaries, all bound as Leonard was. But the king himself was not
there; nor was Ulama; and Leonard, when he had assured himself of this,
turned his gaze on Coryon.

It was well that he had been warned that he would need all his courage
to enable him to look upon this man unflinchingly. Even thus prepared
he found it barely possible to keep down the emotion the sight excited
in his breast.

He saw before him a man of great height and powerful frame, clad in
a black robe with a star on the breast worked in virgin gold and set
with jewels. His grey hair and beard were unkempt and long, his skin
of a dark swarthy hue, his forehead, albeit broad, was receding, and
furrowed, and wrinkled into a sinister scowl, and his lips were parted
or drawn up in a set snarl that disclosed teeth more like a wild
beast's fangs than a human being's teeth. When Leonard first caught
sight of him, he was standing with one arm extended as though he had
just finished some harangue; but, when Leonard was brought up, Coryon
sat down. Then he slowly turned his glance upon the prisoner.

  [Illustration: "HE WAS STANDING WITH ONE ARM EXTENDED."
    [_Page 286._]

And beneath that glance a feeling of cold horror stole into Leonard's
breast; he felt as though an icy hand were about to seize his very
heart and wring it in a grip of iron. It was the nameless dread that
a man may feel in the presence of something that his instincts tell
him is a deadly enemy, yet of which he cannot discover the form, or
size, or nature; whether earthly or supernatural. Here, certainly, the
outward shape was that of a man, but in the eyes there was something
suggesting that their owner was not a man at all, but a living
incarnation of depravity--a demon with eyes, for the moment quiescent
as with the cold glitter and deadly malignancy of the serpent, but
instinct with suppressed power, and ready to flame up with terrible,
relentless, overwhelming energy. Mingled with the snake-like glitter
of malevolence there were lurid flashes that darted forth perpetually,
causing the beholder to recoil as though from actual darts. At sight
of him one thought of some nameless monster coiled up and meditating
a spring upon its prey; a monster that was the implacable foe of the
whole human race, that embodied, in human form, all the power, the
attributes, the cruelty, of an arch-demon from another world.

From such a being the soul shrinks with a horror that is less earthly
fear than the natural loathing of evil things that is implanted within
the breasts of all endowed with pure and holy instincts; and this was
Leonard's feeling while he stood, half sick and faint, enduring and
returning Coryon's fixed look.

But just when it came upon him that he must either shift his glance
or drop helpless to the ground, the thought of all the child-like,
innocent Ulama must have suffered through the shameless treachery of
this fiend in human shape came into his mind; and, with the thought,
forth from his heart rushed out the blood, bursting through the icy
grip that had all but closed upon it, and coursing through his veins in
a leaping torrent, like one of those great waves of fiery indignation
that sometimes, for a while, gives to one man the strength of ten. With
a sudden impulse that forgot everything but his righteous anger, he
put forth such an effort that he broke the cords that bound him; then,
rushing impetuously upon Coryon, before any one could interfere, he
actually had him by the throat in a clutch that, spite of the other's
own gigantic strength, would have ended his vile life if, for a few
seconds longer, his assailant had been left alone. But a dozen hands
laid hold of him and pulled him back, bruised and panting, to the
custody of the men he had escaped from. But, though baffled and injured
in the struggle, there was in his eyes a light almost of triumph when
he turned round and faced his enemy once more.

"Aha!" he shouted. "Coward! Hateful murderer of women and children and
unarmed men! Thou darest not come down and meet me man to man! Though
thou art near twice my size, I had choked the foul life out of thee,
had we been left alone!"

At first, Coryon made no answer, except to glare at his late assailant
with his evil eyes; but they fell away under the other's dauntless
look, and he put his hands to his throat as if in pain.

"This will cost thee dear," at last he said, in a harsh, croaking
voice; but Leonard replied with a cold smile,

"Thou canst but kill me; and I would not beg mercy from such as thou.
Why dost turn thine eyes away, coward Coryon? Dost feel at last that so
foul a thing may not endure the glance of an honest man?"

Coryon sprang up and stood for a moment with his hands extended
towards his prisoner, his fingers closing and opening convulsively as
though he half intended to accept the challenge in the other's words
and looks. Then he managed to control his passion and sat down again,
first addressing a few words in a low tone to a priest who stood beside
him.




CHAPTER XXVII.

ON THE 'DEVIL-TREE'S LADLE!'


When Coryon sat down, a kind of buzzing or hum or talk in low tones
broke out on all sides. Exclamations and expressions of astonishment
were heard, for never had such audacity been known in a prisoner
standing thus on the very brink of death and almost within reach of the
clutch of the fatal tree.

Leonard was now bound again, and Dakla sent two or three of his
subordinate officers to stand beside him. But, even while they bound
him, the guards, as he could hardly fail to see, treated him with a
measure of involuntary respect; and well they might, for there was not
one amongst them that durst look the evil Coryon in the face.

Then was brought out the contrivance called the 'devil-tree's ladle';
it was simply a long plank widened out at one end, and mounted, in the
centre, on wheels. An irrepressible shudder passed through Leonard when
he saw this grim apparatus. But there was little outward sign of his
emotion, and his eyes were soon again fixed on Coryon, who rose and
thus addressed those present,

"Friends, ye all see here a confirmation of that which I have already
explained unto you this morning. Yonder stands one of the strangers
whom the king hath admitted to his friendship; the man he was about
to honour by alliance with his royal house. Ye can see for yourselves
the untutored passions by which this youth, who was, forsooth, to have
been your future king, is swayed, and his lack of seemly behaviour in
the presence of one like myself, who hath for so many years held a
high position in the land, and hath conferred so many benefits upon
it. Not the least of these, my friends, is that which I have just
achieved--only just in time. I have, with the joint help of those
powerful gods whom we all here serve, been able to defeat and overcome
even the magic with which these men were armed. Ye all know, or have
heard, how they came provided, by some enemies of our race outside the
country, with magic wands that brought down lightning and thunder and
death upon those opposed to them; and to their seeming power the king
weakly yielded, and allowed these strangers to assume high stations
in the land. Zelus, my well-beloved son, early fell a victim to their
lawless intrusion into our domains, as did many of my people whom I
sent to capture them. But in the end I have prevailed against them; I
have taken from them their magic wands, and now they are, as ye all can
see, but ordinary men. But a punishment hath fallen upon the king, for
he is sick to death, and that is why he is not here to-day. He hath
not long to live, and soon the country will be without a king. Now it
seemeth to me certain that the people are averse from accepting this
young stranger as the successor to their dying ruler, and that they
desire one of their own race. This hath caused me much anxious thought,
but I have at last, I think, discovered a solution of the difficulty.
_I_ will espouse the Princess Ulama, and become the king's son-in-law;
thus will your minds be set at rest; for ye will know that whenever the
king dieth he will be succeeded by a ruler who is not only of your own
race, but hath served his country long enough to satisfy all objectors
as to his experience, or his ability, or his solicitude for the welfare
of his native land."

While uttering these words, Coryon looked with a hardly-veiled smile of
malice at Leonard, who, listening to the infamous proposal wrapped up
in such unblushing hypocrisy, started as though he would have rushed
again upon the speaker; but he was held too firmly by those who now
surrounded him. He could scarce keep from groaning aloud at what he had
just heard.

Coryon marked with evident satisfaction this effect of his
announcement, and proceeded, in an unctuous voice, and with an
affectation of great resignation,

"In doing this, good friends, I have, I assure you, no thought, no
feeling save the welfare of my country. I had not thought ever to take
to me another wife; though I had looked with favour upon the desire of
my son Zelus to ally himself with our king's daughter. But, since this
young stranger hath rendered that impossible by slaying treacherously
mine only son, I will accept the necessities of the situation, and
sacrifice my own feelings for the general good. Perhaps, after all,
it is as well; for in me ye will have, as ye all know well, one who
thinks always only of his people's weal. For long ages I have guarded
the land from outward foes by making friends of the powers of darkness.
This, and this alone hath protected us from invasion by the hordes of
wild men that we know exist beyond our borders. The powers, whose High
Priest I am, have guarded us through many centuries, and have planted
around the limits of our island a forest impenetrable and filled with
terrible creatures for our protection. True, they let these strangers
through, but only as a warning of that which might befall if we forgot,
even for a moment, our religion, or rebelled against the sacrifices
it requires and that our gods look for from us and will insist upon.
True, we have to sacrifice some of those we love to our sacred tree,
but what is that compared with the benefits and advantages that the
rest receive? We have peace, prosperity, contentment, freedom from
invasion, from wars, from enemies and dangers of all kinds; and,
compared with these, the price that hath to be paid is, after all, but
small. Henceforth, too, there will be a stronger guarantee for peace
throughout the land, in that your king and the head of your religion
will be one. And you, my faithful followers, who have served me well,"
continued the arch-hypocrite, casting his eyes around, "will no more
be called upon to reside in the rocky fastness that has been so long
our home; for I shall take up my abode in the palace of the king and
there shall ye all follow me." At this a loud cheer went up from all.
"And now to more immediate duties. I have condemned this murderer of my
son to death; he shall end his life befittingly as a sacrifice to the
gods whose power he hath defied in coming here--defied only to his own
doom. So shall perish all who brave me; and so shall perish this man's
friends, his murderous abettors who, too, are in my power. And now,
sirrah, if thou hast aught to say, thou hast just a minute. If thou
hast aught to ask me, now is thy final opportunity."

When he ceased speaking, Coryon sat down, first casting at Leonard a
hideous glance of triumph. Leonard saw the sneer and knew that his
enemy's desire was to excite him to a farther display of useless anger;
but the knowledge only served to calm him, and, when he spoke, it was
in a voice that had in it neither bitterness nor passion, but only a
great sadness. He did not wish to gratify Coryon by exhibiting anger;
and thus he spoke,

"It is true I have something I would say, but it is not to thee, O
Coryon, but to those who are not Coryon's degraded servants, but free
agents, who have been misled into supporting him here to-day. To you,
good people, I address myself." And Leonard cast his eyes around upon
those who were not wearers of Coryon's uniform. "I have much to say and
much to ask. Know that the power of this boastful tyrant who declares
with mock humility his wicked purpose to force the youthful daughter
of his king into an alliance that revolts her--know, good people,
that his power is almost at an end, and that he will never enter into
that palace, in which he has promised to find place for his credulous
followers. He may kill me if he will, but my death will naught avail;
a few hours hence he will be either a prisoner in the hands of those
who came with me, or hiding in his underground haunts like a hunted
animal that dares not show its face above the ground. But the end will
be the same. He will quickly be hurled out, and a terrible punishment
will be meted out to him and to all those who abet him--every one,
that is, who shall support him. Therefore I say this to you, when
my friends come--as come they will--do not help Coryon's myrmidons
against them. They will come armed with a fearful power that you can
scarce conceive; you shall see the very rocks fall away before them in
crashing thunders as they hunt these rats out of their holes. If you
fight on Coryon's side, they will mow you down like grass before the
scythe. On the other hand, if you side not with these doomed ones, but,
instead, ask for mercy, you shall find it; for we came not to this land
to teach cruelty and murder, but to deliver it from the tyranny that
has so long oppressed it. That is my advice to you; what I would ask is
that you tell your fellow-citizens that I am sore distressed in that
I have done far less than I might to win their affections and their
confidence. That I have made a terrible mistake, that it has led me to
this situation, I now see. But my error I shall expiate with my life;
when I am dead, and you see the benefits my friends will shower on the
land, then tell all that I was of the same mind, and was full of naught
but kindly feelings. But--my great--love for one so fair--as your
young--princess--took up my thoughts, perhaps, more than should have
been the case." Leonard's voice almost failed him here; but by a strong
effort he recovered himself and went on. "That is all that I would ask;
let them remember me and think kindly of me. You will see in those days
who has spoken truly--whether I, or Coryon. You will know how false has
been every word he has said to you to-day. Even what he says about my
friends is false; they are _not_ in his power, nor has he deprived them
of their magic power, as you will all quickly see. To say that by his
atrocious so-called religious rites he has guarded and advanced this
country is a lie----"

"Silence!" exclaimed Coryon, who had all this time been moving
restlessly in his seat.

"I come from a land--the greatest on the earth--that has an empire
upon which the sun ne'er sets; we have no such wicked murders called
sacrifices; yet we are safe against our enemies, and----"

"Silence, I tell thee! What think'st thou we care about thy country or
thyself?" Coryon burst out.

"I say," Leonard went on, disregarding him, "that every word this man
utters is a lie. He cannot say one single sentence without uttering a
lie----"

"If thou sayest more, I will have thee scourged as well as killed,"
Coryon cried, in growing rage. "It speaketh well to these good people
for my patience that I have let thee have thy say thus far. Never, for
many a year, has mortal dared to flout me to my face as thou hast
done."

"O Coryon!" Leonard exclaimed, turning and facing him, "truly did I say
that thou could'st not speak one single sentence without uttering some
lie, and now thou art convicted. For I know of one, at least, that has
flouted and dared thee to thy face; one whose spirit thou couldst not
quell; and she but a woman--her name Fernina!"

At this a perfect howl of rage escaped from Coryon's lips. He sprang up
and clutched at the air, and gasped; and, for a moment, Leonard half
thought he would have a fit. But he recovered himself, and shouted, in
a screaming voice,

"Seize him! Gag him! Lay him on the feeding-ladle of our sacred tree!
We will see how he fancies its embrace!" Then, turning round and
addressing some one near him, he cried out,

"Bring forward the princess, that she may witness this my act of
justice towards the murderer she would have taken to her bosom. Let my
future wife look on. Ha! ha! ha! My future wife! How dost thou like the
title, murderer of my son, and would-be king?"

His rage was something fearful to behold; many even of his own
myrmidons trembled, and they made speed to do his bidding.

Leonard was seized and bound to the wheeled plank, and, after trying
in vain to turn his head to take one last look at Ulama, he closed his
eyes and resigned himself to prayer. At the same time Ulama, looking
but the mere ghost of her former self, was led to the side of Coryon's
chair between two women, and forced to look upon the dreadful scene. At
the sight of Leonard bound to the fatal plank, and the grim tree with
its restless branches ever twisting in avid hunger for their prey, a
look of stony horror came over her face; she gave one gasping, sobbing
cry, and fell back unconscious.

  [Illustration: ON THE DEVIL-TREE'S LADLE.
    [_Page 297._]

For some moments Coryon paused; he was inclined to wait till Ulama
should be restored to consciousness, for he wanted to prolong the
torture of the lovers somewhat before finally consigning Leonard to his
fate; but his fury mastered him, and he gave the signal to the two men
holding one end of the plank to push it out along the stone pier.

They had just begun to move it when a shot was heard, and one of them
fell to the ground; and Leonard, turning his head, saw Templemore, high
on the rocks above, kneeling with his rifle at his shoulder.

Coryon saw it too, and, with a shout, and many threats, urged the other
man to push out the plank; but, instead, he started back in terror, and
only just in time to escape a second bullet that came singing past his
ears and wounded a soldier standing near.

Coryon, mad with rage and disappointed malice, snatched a spear from
a soldier beside him, and ordered others in front of him to seize
the plank and push it out, prodding at them with the spear to force
obedience; but one, who stepped forward at his bidding, fell before
he could reach the plank. Meantime, Templemore, followed by Ergalon
and the brave Zonella, had come leaping down from ledge to ledge,
threatening all who barred his way, and shooting down one or two who
tried to stop him. He now stood, a revolver in each hand, at the end of
the plank, and there he kept a circle around him, while Ergalon cut the
cords by which Leonard was bound, released the cloth that had been tied
round his mouth to gag him, and helped him to his feet. Immediately he
rushed to Templemore.

"Give me a rifle, Jack! Let me shoot down that son of Satan and rid the
earth of him for ever."

Ergalon was carrying three rifles, the one Templemore had been using
and two spare ones; one of these he handed now to Leonard.

But, in the interval, Coryon's chief officer, Dakla, had taken in the
situation; and having already had experience of the weapons with which
he saw Templemore was armed, had advised Coryon to retreat into the
covered-way.

"It is useless to stay here, my lord," he said. "Thou wilt surely be
killed! Haste to the shelter while there is yet time! There I think
thou wilt be safe. If not, thou canst retreat within the gates."

"Dost think the danger is so great, good Dakla?" Coryon asked,
incredulously.

"I am sure of it, my lord. Haste thee--and take some soldiers with thee
and keep them between thee and thine enemies, or thou wilt never reach
the shelter alive. I will leave some men here and take others up on to
the rocks above, whence we can hurl down great stones upon them. Haply,
if no more come, we may yet prevail against these."

Coryon and his priests and immediate followers hastened away,
accordingly, leaving the still unconscious Ulama, in charge of the two
women, behind his chair. He was only just in time, for a soldier he
forced to walk beside him fell by a shot from Leonard's rifle a moment
before they gained the shelter of the covered-way.

Leonard saw the women beside Coryon's chair, and, though he knew
not that Ulama was lying there unconscious, he guessed she was near
the spot; therefore he feared to fire more shots in that direction;
while he knew it would be useless to fire at the iron-work of the
covered-way. For a space, therefore, there was a pause; but soon
Dakla's men appeared on the rocks above them and began to roll down
stones and boulders.

The position of the little band was now becoming critical. To retreat,
leaving Ulama in the hands of Coryon, was not to be conceived. Yet they
could not advance, for a compact body of men stood ready to receive
them; and at these they durst not fire lest they might hit Ulama or
one of her attendants. Yet every minute they stayed where they were
increased their danger. Great masses of rock, started by persons above
who showed only an arm or hand above the ridge, came crashing down and
shooting past them. And, when a head was raised above it here and there
to take a hurried aim, it was seen only for a second, and gave little
opportunity for a shot.

They had had two or three narrow escapes, and had avoided injury
only by leaping out of the path of the rocks that came crashing and
bounding down. Jack urged Zonella to go back, but she stoutly refused;
and he was at his wits' end what course to take, when loud shouting
was heard in the direction of the entrance of the enclosure. Soon, a
rush of armed men in red tunics came along the roadway at the rear of
the black-coated soldiers standing around Coryon's chair. Instantly
Coryon's men gave way, and rushed across the terrace towards the
covered-way; while the red-coated men poured in and spread themselves
out on either side.

And now could be seen men carrying flags and banners, and amongst them
two of mighty stature; one of them, the taller, dressed in the coat
of mail and the helmet with silver wings that had been preserved so
long in the museum and that was said to have belonged to the legendary
Mellenda. He wore, too, the great sword that belonged to the suit, and
it seemed, upon his towering form, to be of no more than usual and
proportionate size.

As this majestic figure came more closely into view, accompanied
by Colenna and some others of the king's officers, Leonard and
Templemore's astonishment were great at recognising no other than their
friend Monella!




CHAPTER XXVIII.

RALLYING TO THE CALL.


To make clearer the events described in the previous chapters, it
should be stated that, when Templemore and Ergalon had returned from
their journey down the canyon in quest of arms and ammunition, they
found with Zonella, who was anxiously awaiting them, a messenger from
Monella.

It was not yet daylight, and the two who had made the descent and
ascent of the difficult path under conditions of considerable hardship,
were very much exhausted. They were therefore glad, though surprised,
to find that, in their absence, Zonella had provided both food and wine
for them.

"How pleased I am to see you I need scarcely say," she exclaimed. "But
first, eat and drink, while I talk. I have much to tell, and there is
yet time to spare. Therefore, rest and refresh yourselves, while I
relate what has been made known to me.

"Your friend, Monella, has done wondrous things. It seems--as Ergalon
here no doubt has been aware--that he has long been quietly making
preparations for some such crisis as the present. Coryon, it is
true, by his treachery, has stolen a march upon him, but he is being
gradually and surely enmeshed in the net that the lord Monella has
drawn around him. For a long time Sanaima has been secretly drilling
numbers of his followers in Myrlanda, where he has a large store of
arms, and he and Monella have gained over many of Coryon's men; in
particular, some of those sent to close the subterranean pass. When,
therefore, the two, with many armed men, presented themselves at
the entrance to the pass and found the gates closed against them,
instead of making a desperate fight of it in which many must have
been killed on both sides and the news of it have been carried to
Coryon's ears, they waited for their friends inside to act. Soon,
those of them amongst the soldiers who guarded the approach, seizing
their opportunity, fell upon their fellows in their sleep, bound them,
and opened the gates. The same thing has occurred in the palace;
all Coryon's soldiers really devoted to him have been quietly made
prisoners, and the palace is now in the hands of Monella and Sanaima
and their friends; and Coryon knows it not.

"Now, when Monella found that you had escaped, he divined whither you
had gone, and sent messengers here to await your return; and I sent
them back at once to tell him I expected you here ere long. And now
another has arrived with instructions, in case you should return in
time to put them into execution, as--the Great Spirit be praised!--you
have. Monella has sent two or three of Coryon's own people to him with
various messages to allay his suspicions; and Coryon quite believes
that you are still a prisoner, and that Monella is still in Myrlanda,
unable to get through the pass. Others of Monella's men, dressed in
black tunics taken from the prisoners, are now placed at intervals on
guard at all the approaches to Coryon's retreat; where already, by this
time, nearly all his followers and his adherents amongst the people
are assembling. There will be some hundreds altogether; all hostile to
you and your friends. But, when they are all assembled, Monella will
gather together also many hundreds from the people outside, and march
them to the amphitheatre and so surprise Coryon and all with him."

"But how," asked Templemore, "if Coryon gets to hear of it?"

"He will not. No move will be made till all are gathered in the
amphitheatre; after that, any stragglers going thither from the town,
and any messengers sent thence by Coryon, will fall into the hands of
Monella's disguised soldiers, and will be quietly seized and bound."

"I see. And now what is to be done to make sure of the safety of our
friends?"

"The directions are these. You are to go quietly, through the forest,
to the wood at the edge of the amphitheatre where----"

"I understand," broke in Ergalon. "It is the place,"--turning to
Templemore--"where we stood and looked down upon the great devil-tree
that night. I can take you by a route that leads through the woods all
the way, and thus we shall not be seen."

"Yes, that is right," resumed Zonella. "When you get there, you are to
remain concealed, and watch all that goes on, and, unless compelled, do
nothing till the arrival of Monella and his friends. But, if it should
be absolutely necessary to interfere before that to save our friends,
why, then, of course, you must do the best you can."

"I only hope we may be in time to save them," said Templemore, with a
sigh. "I am terribly anxious. Let us be going; it is already getting
light."

The three then started--for Zonella insisted on accompanying them--and
the messenger was sent back to inform Monella. When they approached the
amphitheatre, four black-coated soldiers suddenly sprang up before them
from among the bushes, where they had been lying concealed. Templemore
drew a pistol, but Zonella stepped in front of him, and said something
in a low tone to the soldiers, who at once gave way and let them pass.

"What did you say to them?" asked Templemore.

"I gave them the pass-word," she answered quietly.

"And what is that, if I may inquire?"

"It is a word you do not regard with the same feelings as ourselves,"
she answered gravely. "But in Manoa it has always been a word to
conjure with, and, so it is to-day--it is 'Mellenda.'" And, while she
spoke, she looked at Templemore half defiantly.

But he made no reply, and they walked on in silence, and now with all
caution, to their destination.

Meanwhile, so soon as the sun had risen, messengers were hurrying
hither and thither amongst the populace, knocking at doors, and
summoning all friendly to the king and the princess, to assemble in the
great square where stood the large museum. And, in reply to excited
questionings, they often only gave the magic word, 'Mellenda,' or said,
'Mellenda calls you.'

Most of the population were early astir that morning, restless with
anxiety and fear for the princess and her betrothed, who had, they
were told, been carried off by Coryon. As stated, by the great mass of
people their princess was much beloved by the people; and Leonard, if
he had not gained their affection, had the sympathy, for her sake, of
all loyal subjects, and they were many. Indeed, all they wanted was a
leader; they were too cowed to take action for themselves.

No wonder, then, that when such a leader came, announcing himself as
the long-expected, legendary Mellenda, the whole population, outside
those who were gathered around Coryon in the amphitheatre, rallied
to his standard, and clamoured to be armed and led against their
oppressor. That there were plenty of arms in the museum all well knew;
and, when the messengers ran to and fro, spreading the news of the
return of their hero-king, all the men who heard the tidings left at
once whatever they might have in hand, and hurried to the museum. There
they found Sanaima with a number of followers already equipped in
the well-known red tunics and winged helmets; and Colenna and others
engaged in giving out arms and uniforms to many more.

And when, shortly after, Monella appeared at the top of the wide flight
of steps, clad in Mellenda's coat of mail, with the well-known banner
floating above him, and wearing at his side the mighty sword, every
man and woman and child amongst the crowd below gave a great shout and
knelt before him. Then Monella drew the mighty sword, that an ordinary
man could hardly wield, and, flourishing it in the air as easily as
though it were but the lightest cane, addressed the kneeling people in
sonorous tones that were heard by all, and were delivered with an air
of exceeding majesty and dignity,

"Yes, my children! I have returned to you! After many days the Great
Spirit hath led my weary steps back to my beloved country, there
to finish my life's work, and end a long and troublous journey. My
pilgrimage through the ages hath been a punishment to me, even as the
same dreary time hath been a punishment to you; a punishment to myself
for having placed too high a value, in the times that are long past,
on power and conquest and dominion; to you, for that your forefathers
forsook their faith--the worship of the one Great Spirit--and embraced
the religion of the powers of darkness, and supported the atrocious
Coryon in a rebellion against their lawful king, and in the murder of
those near and dear to him. For that, the punishment hath been that
they should be oppressed and cruelly ill-treated by him they thus
supported, through many generations. But, at last, the anger of the
Great Spirit is appeased. He hath led me hither to deliver this fair
land from the horror that broods over it. I come to you, not with great
fleets of ships, with armies and generals, as of yore; but as a simple
wanderer returning to his home. Yet in my coming the Great Spirit sent
you all a sign; for I arrived but just in time to save her who is the
child of Manoa's ancient race of kings and--my own descendant. This was
the sign--this and the death of Zelus at the same time; which was a
warning to Coryon that he heeded not. But time presses, and I may not
say more now. The princess and our friends are in great peril, and I
go to save them. I go to break Black Coryon's power for ever, and to
punish him as he deserves. Then will I bring again to this fair land
peace, and happiness, and security for all."

Then, amid acclamations, and shouts and cries of delight, Monella--or
Mellenda, as he now called himself--moved off towards the place where
Coryon, in fancied security, was boastfully proclaiming his intention
to espouse the princess, and to live henceforth at the palace as
supreme ruler of the country.

Those of Sanaima's followers from Myrlanda, who had been instructed
in their duties, took charge, as officers, of ranks and companies of
the newly-recruited men. They were assisted by many officers of the
king's guard who had been held prisoners in the palace, but had been
released, and had now changed their blue uniforms for the red tunics
and winged helmets in the museum.

Some, however, remained behind, to equip and despatch reinforcements
as men continued to arrive asking to be enrolled. Thus, if trouble
should arise with Coryon, Monella would have at his back, eventually,
an overwhelming force. And as the men kept marching off in companies,
the crowd of women and children and old men collected in the square
in which was the museum stood about in anxious groups, awaiting news;
hardly daring to hope for what all so fervently desired--the final
downfall of their ruthless tyrant.




CHAPTER XXIX.

'THOU ART MY LORD MELLENDA!'


To return to the scene in the amphitheatre. Monella, and those with
him, advanced with measured tread; but suddenly his eyes fell on Ulama.
For a few moments he bent over her, then he came slowly to the front
and looked around him, and in that rapid survey he seemed to take in
everything.

Beckoning to Leonard and Zonella he said, when they had joined him,

"The princess lies there in a dead faint. This is no place for the poor
child. Bear her tenderly outside. My people will protect you." Then he
turned again to look around.

In their surprise at the unexpected inrush, those on the heights had
ceased hurling down the rocks, and now they gazed in wonderment at
Monella and those with him. Beside him stood a tall man in a white robe
upon which was worked a figure of the sun in diamonds that flashed
and sparkled as he moved. His long hair and beard were snowy white,
his forehead, high and massive, was clear, and curiously free from
lines and wrinkles. It had the impassive look of one who suffers few
earthly cares to trouble him. His features were pleasant and benevolent
in expression, and the clear grey eyes were open and candid in their
glance. Like Monella, he was far above the usual height; and, like
him, was of imposing presence and stately mien. Altogether, one would
say of him that he was a _good_ man, a man to be trusted and respected;
he had at the same time the air of one deeply engrossed in intellectual
pursuits, or leading an ascetic life. He lacked just that touch of
tender human sympathy that made Monella's mere look so fascinating to
those with whom he came in contact, and that bound so thoroughly to him
those who yielded to its subtle influence.

Ergalon had already whispered to the others that the stranger was
Sanaima, the ancient chief of the White Priesthood; and Templemore
regarded him with interest and curiosity.

Above their heads waved great red banners with strange devices and
elaborately carved standard poles. At a sign from Monella, Coryon's
banner, that floated above his chair, was pulled down and trampled in
the dust; then the largest of the red ones was hoisted in its place.

Next, Monella quietly seated himself in Coryon's chair and gazed around
the enclosure, his features set and stern, and his steady, piercing
eyes seeming to read the very heart of every one upon whom he turned
his gaze. The king's ministers and other prisoners had been unbound,
while Templemore had been hastily explaining, to the best of his
ability, all that had taken place.

Presently Monella rose, and, waving his hand towards the people not
clad in Coryon's uniforms, he thus addressed them,

"How comes it, that in this place of evil deeds and heinous crimes,
I find many of the king's peaceful subjects--or they who should be
peaceful--ranged round and calmly looking on at acts of cold-blooded
cruelty against the king's own child and those he calls his friends?
What have ye to say in excuse or extenuation? Choose the highest among
ye for a spokesman, and let him come forward and explain this shameful
thing, if so he can. Else I may include ye all in the punishment I am
here to mete out to these evil-doers."

At this there was a great hubbub and commotion. Some of Coryon's
companions in the covered-way turned in a panic to make their escape
into the interior gallery; but found, to their dismay, that the gates
were fast closed and barred against them from within. And when they
glanced out at the rocks above, they saw red-coated soldiers, who now
lined the heights and kept still arriving in ever-increasing numbers.
Dakla and his principal officers had withdrawn at their advance,
and now stood, with the priests, crowded together just inside the
covered-way. Outside the iron screens the long, trailing branches swept
up from time to time, as though seeking to get at those within.

After a hurried conference among the people, one of their number
stepped down on to the main terrace and placed himself before Monella.

Templemore stood on one side of Monella's chair, rifle in hand, with
Ergalon close by holding the spare rifles, all ready loaded. He watched
with growing wonder the continual arrival of red-coated soldiers on
all sides of the rocky ridges. They all carried spears, or swords and
shields, and wore the curious helmets ornamented with little silver
wings that he had seen in the museum. And now, amongst them, were to
be seen many citizens in ordinary dress. But all kept a space between
themselves and those who had been there on their arrival; their manner
towards these was evidently unfriendly and threatening; and, since the
newcomers outnumbered the others, including all Coryon's people, the
position of the latter was growing anything but comfortable. And still
the red-coated men kept coming, pushing those in advance of them into
positions lower down and farther round the terraces of the enclosure.

There was a general hush when the one who had been chosen spokesman
came forward and stood in front of Monella, who asked curtly,

"Thy name?"

"Galaima," was the reply, given in a clear, unhesitating voice. "I have
been chosen by those whom thou didst but now address, to speak in their
name. Seeing that punishment hath been spoken of, we desire first to
ask what authority thou hast to speak in the king's name; by what right
thou dost threaten us; and who thou art?"

"You have the right to ask those questions," returned Monella coldly.
"Know then that I am King of Manoa--thy king, and the king of Coryon,
and of all in this country."

"King of Manoa!" echoed Galaima in surprise, while similar exclamations
broke forth around. "But, my lord--I speak with all respect--how can
that be?"

"The King Dranoa is sick even unto death. His illness hath been
hastened in its course by acts of base treachery perpetrated by
Coryon--with whom I shall deal anon. Finding himself dying and unable
to lead his soldiers to the rescue of his child, he hath abdicated
in my favour, for me to hold the post so long as I think fit in the
interests of the nation. Here (taking out from his bosom a roll of
parchment) is his sign-manual duly sealed and executed in the presence
of the High Priest Sanaima and others who are with me; and here is his
sceptre of office, and this is his signet-ring--these being given to me
by him in token of my authority, and also in the presence of Sanaima
and many others you see around me. Is it not so, friends?" Monella
demanded, turning to Sanaima and the others near.

A loud shout went up in confirmation; then, at a wave of Monella's
hand, there was again a deep, expectant silence.

Coryon had come out from the covered-way on hearing the unlooked-for
and unwelcome news, and now stood, a little in advance of his own
people, an attentive listener and observer of what was going on.

"Thou hast heard," resumed Monella, in the same cold, stern tone. "I
come duly armed with authority to punish, and I have the power. Do thou
and thy fellows yonder desire to take part with the traitor Coryon, and
fight against us; or do ye disavow him and throw yourselves upon my
mercy?"

"My lord, with all respect, I ask for the reply to my last question.
We came hither--of a certainty I and my immediate friends so came--to
protest against the king's choice of a son-in-law. We were unwilling
to have thrust upon us, as our future king, one who is of a different
race--who is a stranger in the land--and who, so far as it appeareth,
hath no claim to royal dignity. Now--with all respect, I say again--for
all we know, those same objections apply to thine own case. If,
however, I am wrong in this, and thou canst convince us that thou hast
reasonable claim to the dignity the king hath conferred upon thee, then
we are ready to submit ourselves as loyal subjects."

"Thy logic is good," observed Monella with bitter emphasis, "for thy
present purpose; but it faileth to explain how it came about that,
instead of making known your sentiment in a petition and awaiting
the king's friendly explanation, as befitted faithful subjects, ye
supported Coryon in his treasonable acts--in kidnapping the king's
daughter and his friends. Further, ye were all proceeding, at Coryon's
mere suggestion, to put to death this stranger, without giving him
either time or opportunity to afford the information ye now profess
yourself so anxious to obtain. However, thou shalt have thy question
answered--and, that done, let me warn thee that I am in no mood to
suffer further trifling. King Dranoa's good-natured weakness, and my
own misplaced leniency, have already wrought too much misunderstanding.
Ask thy question of the lord Colenna, the king's High Chamberlain."

Then Colenna stepped forward, and, in a loud, sonorous voice, that
resounded throughout the vast amphitheatre, cried out,

"Know ye all, by the command of King Dranoa and the unanimous assent
of his ministers, that the great lord Mellenda, who hath been hitherto
known amongst us as Monella--which in ancient times had the same
signification as the word Mellenda--hath made himself known to his
people, and hath assumed the office of ruler of the countries of Manoa
and Myrlanda."

At this extraordinary announcement Coryon moved back into the
covered-way with unsteady and almost tottering steps; while Monella
rose and, with another wave of the hand, signalled for silence. Turning
to Sanaima, he asked, with quiet dignity, but in a ringing voice that
all could hear,

"And thou, august head of our religion, faithful through so many years
of persecution and despair, who dost _thou_ say I am?"

Then Sanaima raised his hands to heaven as though to invoke a blessing,
and said, solemnly,

"In the name of the Great Spirit whom I serve, I recognise and welcome
thee, my lord Mellenda!"

But still Monella waved his hand for silence; and, raising his voice,
he cried,

"Come forth, Black Coryon! I command thee! Come forth!"

And Coryon came forward, and stood before him; but he durst not meet
his eyes.

Monella slowly raised his arm and straightened it, pointing his finger
at his enemy.

"And who, foul Coryon, who dost _thou_ say I am?"

For the space of a few seconds Coryon looked his questioner in the
face. There was a brief struggle to hold his own and to repel with
proud defiance the glance Monella turned on him; then, bowing his head,
he murmured humbly,

"Thou art my lord Mellenda!"

Then a great shout went up. Again, and again, and yet again it was
repeated. "Mellenda! Mellenda! Mellenda!" It rang out from far and
near. It was taken up by a crowd of women and children without the
gates, and thence it travelled back and echoed from one side of the
rocky amphitheatre to the other.

When, once more, there was silence, Galaima dropped upon one knee and
begged for clemency for himself and friends.

"Lay down your arms, each one of you, and go!" the answer came. "Let me
not look upon your faces again yet awhile."

Then Monella, turning to Coryon's soldiers, commanded them also to lay
down their arms and surrender themselves prisoners.

Here Coryon showed the first signs of resistance he had yet exhibited,
and his officers, who had stood watching for a sign from him, withdrew
in a body into the entrance to the covered-way, seeing in it the best
opportunities for a last desperate fight.

"My lord forgetteth," said Coryon, "that he hath given no assurance
that the lives of my people and servants will be spared."

"I can make no terms with thee or with thy minions. I came here to
punish the evil-doers, as well as to save my friends," returned Monella
with grave meaning. "Thou hast been warned again and again since I came
into the land; I sent thee word that, if I came to thee, I would bring
retribution in my hand."

"But surely," urged Coryon, in the smooth, oily manner he could put on
at will, "if we submit, my lord will require no more? Thy friends are
safe; no harm hath been done to them. May it not be that I remain here
with mine own people, within mine own domain--the domain that hath been
mine for centuries--in friendly alliance----"

"What!" exclaimed Monella, turning wrathfully upon the crafty hypocrite
with a blaze of anger in his eyes, as might a lion turn upon a snapping
cur. "Thou darest to speak to me of _alliance_! Alliance with _thee_!
With a thing so foul, so loathsome, so detestable as thou! Shall the
eagle ally himself with the carrion crow? Enough!" He broke off, in
indignation at the insult, and, turning to the officers of his own
party who stood near, cried,

"Seize them and bind them! Every one! Let not one escape! But take them
alive, if possible."

A large number of the red-coated soldiers, led by their officers, now
advanced upon the crowd of Coryon's people gathered at the entrance
to the covered-way. Many of the latter came forward at once and threw
down their arms; while others stood irresolute. Coryon, himself, made
no effort to escape, and was seized by a couple of men, who quickly
bound his hands behind him. But Dakla and all Coryon's priests and
some half-dozen of his lieutenants and a few soldiers--perhaps those
who felt themselves most guilty--stood defiantly some little distance
within the gallery, determined to resist capture to the last.




CHAPTER XXX.

A TERRIBLE VENGEANCE!


Of all the spectators of what had occurred in the amphitheatre, no
one, probably, was so utterly astonished and helplessly bewildered as
was Templemore. At Monella's assumption of the royal office he felt
no great surprise. It seemed almost a natural thing, taking all the
circumstances into account, that the king, finding his daughter stolen
away and himself too ill to pursue and punish her captors, should
delegate his authority to the man in whom he had of late reposed such
confidence. But at Colenna's announcement that in Monella he recognised
the long-expected, legendary Mellenda, Templemore was, as may be
supposed, considerably startled; and his perplexity was increased
when Sanaima, in his turn, subscribed to Colenna's declaration; but
when Coryon himself affirmed his belief in the marvellous assertion,
Templemore's ideas became so hopelessly confused, that he knew not what
to think or what to make of it. In other circumstances he would, no
doubt, have quietly settled matters in his own mind by deciding that
all present had become victims to a passing fit of madness or transient
delusion; but the grim realities of the strange drama that was being
played before him made it impossible to explain things by any such
hypothesis.

It was in the midst of the conflict thus proceeding in his mind, that
Dakla and his fellows took up their attitude of defiance; so Templemore
promptly decided to postpone further thought upon the matter. It was
sufficient, for the moment, that there was the prospect of a fight in
which his friends would need his help; and he began handling his rifle
significantly, glancing while he did so at Monella.

The latter had laid his hand upon his shoulder as though to stay him
until he should have had more time to study the situation, when a
rumbling noise was heard, and an iron door shot out from the inside
wall a little distance from the end of the covered-way, completely
closing it and shutting out from view the men within. So suddenly had
this been done that Dakla was almost caught by it, and would have been
jammed against the iron pillar into which it fitted, but that he had
managed to withdraw himself inside just in time to escape it.

The impression upon the minds of those outside was that this
unlooked-for obstacle that intervened between those within the
protected gallery and their enemies, had been purposely made use of
to gain time to force open the interior gates and thus assist their
escape into the labyrinth of passages beyond. The first effect was
to dishearten those of Coryon's adherents who were still outside
in a state of indecision. Seeing themselves thus, as they thought,
incontinently abandoned by their leaders, they threw down their arms
without further ado, submitted to their captors, and, in few minutes,
were pinioned and marched out of the way.

It now became a question what steps were to be taken to follow up those
who had so cleverly escaped, temporarily, at all events, from their
pursuers. These were, after Coryon himself, the most guilty of the
whole atrocious confederacy; and Templemore turned to Monella with a
look of inquiry.

"What say you," said he, "shall we try whether that door is
bullet-proof?"

But Monella again laid his hand upon the other's arm, and gazed, as
though in expectation, first at Coryon--who was standing out in the
centre of the terrace, guarded by two soldiers--and then, from him,
to that part of the covered-way nearest to the rocks that ended it.
His quick eye had noticed that Coryon seemed as much taken by surprise
as all the rest, and that there was, in his face, no trace of that
triumphant satisfaction that might have been expected if this manoeuvre
of his chief friends had been looked for. Instead, there was a fixed
look that was momentarily changing from surprise to terror.

Templemore, following Monella's gaze, noted all this--and so did
others. A hush fell upon all present; every one looked at Coryon, and,
from him, to the length of grated iron screens, over the face of which
the branches of the fatal tree were playing with busy sweep, evidently
aware, by some unfailing instinct, that there was plenty of prey for
them within. And it was now noticed that the larger number of the
longer branches had gathered themselves upon that side.

Gradually, the look on Coryon's face changed into one of absolute
horror, the while he stood staring at the outside of the
covered-gallery.

To make what follows clear, it is necessary to describe this
covered-way a little more in detail. It has already been explained
that it formed the approach to an opening in the rock--closed by
gates--which was the principal entrance to Coryon's retreat. When
unprotected by the sliding gratings at the side, it was so near to
the great devil-tree that the longer branches could sweep its whole
width for some distance in front of the gates. At the side was some
masonry, above which the rock rose steep and almost over-hanging. At
the end, above the entrance, the rock rose also abruptly, and then
followed the line of the arena, shutting in the latter at this part by
a rocky wall that rose perpendicularly some fifty or sixty feet. But
the part within reach of the tree was roofed over by iron gratings,
forming a sort of verandah, which, in turn, could be rendered safe from
the terrible branches by sliding grated doors or shutters that could,
by machinery within, be moved forward in telescopic fashion along the
whole length accessible to the tree, and a short distance beyond. Thus,
when the side 'shutters' were withdrawn, the entrance-gates were very
effectually guarded by the tree itself. When they were extended, they,
in conjunction with the roof, constituted an efficient protection to
the covered-way. But herein lay also a cunningly-devised and deadly
trap; for, just within the entrance of this covered-gallery, was
another iron door that could be moved across the passage so as to
imprison any one caught between it and the gates at the other end. This
door came out of a scarcely noticeable slot in the masonry at the side;
and it was situated far enough along to place those thus caught within
reach of the tree, if the side shutters were withdrawn.

Doubtless, many had fallen into this frightful trap. Thinking the
gallery well protected they would walk unsuspiciously along it towards
the closed gates, when those watching from within could close the
gallery behind them and open the sides; and their fate would then be
sealed.

This was the only part of the main terrace within reach of the tree.
Round the remainder of the amphitheatre it was far removed from it,
and was of ample width. Only at this part, and upon the stone pier
that jutted out towards the tree from the centre, or down in the arena
itself, was there danger to any one moving about within the vast
enclosure.

At a point in the cliff, high above the covered-way, was a small grated
door in the rock. This was another entrance to Coryon's fastness; but
it was sufficiently protected by the nature of the steep and narrow
path by which alone it could be reached.

While those gathered around the enclosure, following Coryon's fixed
gaze, were watching the outside faces of the sliding doors or
shutters, these doors began to move; and, amidst a hush of awe-struck
expectation, they disclosed a gap which gradually widened, and through
which the fatal branches quickly darted. Then, from within, arose a
fearful and appalling cry, as the miserable prisoners caught in this
trap of their own contriving began to realise their situation. The
gap grew wider, and, anon, another opened farther on, and into this
the searching branches likewise entered, hungry for the prey within.
And, as the gaps grew wider, they disclosed to view an awful scene.
Some dozens of terror-stricken wretches could be seen fighting and
struggling with the writhing branches and with each other, amidst
a deafening din of screams, and shrieks, and yells; the officers
and soldiers using their swords, and the priests and others their
daggers, in a hopeless contest with the twisting branches that kept
coiling around them. In their mad struggles and desperate efforts the
combatants fought with one another, the stronger striving to push the
weaker in front of them; the latter, in turn, stabbing backwards at
those who thus tried to make use of them. Three or four, in headlong
terror, leaped from the terrace on to the ground beneath, where they
fell with dull thuds, and probably broken limbs; but, ere they could
rise, their legs were entangled in the ubiquitous branches and escape
became impossible. Dakla was seen, with a sword in one hand and a
dagger in the other, at one moment slashing furiously at the branches
that assailed him, at another striving to hold in front of him Skelda,
the next in rank to Coryon. Two of the priests were seen engaged in a
hand-to-hand struggle, apparently unmindful of the coils that gradually
encircled them and presently dragged both out, locked together, and
still frantically fighting with each other. They were carried up to the
top of the tree, and disappeared, still fighting, within the cavity.
But, though the rapacious tree had now as much as it could, for the
time, dispose of in this way, it had no intention of giving up its hold
upon the others. These it grappled in its toils, dragging them about
hither and thither, dangling them now this way and now that, but never
giving one a chance of escape--evidently bent on saving all up for
future meals--perhaps days hence. It was a gruesome scene that shocked
and sickened the spectators, for all they were so incensed, and justly
so, against the victims.

Meanwhile, the iron door in the rock above had opened, and a woman was
seen hurrying down the dangerous path. Her hair was streaming loosely
about her shoulders, her eyes were wild and fierce, and she laughed and
gesticulated in a fashion that made those who watched her think her
crazy. She made her way to where Coryon still stood, a silent witness
of what was going on before him; and she then paused and surveyed the
awful scene with a smile that was almost devilish.

Just then Skelda leaped out of the covered-way on to the ground
beneath; then, rising to his feet, looked round despairingly, and,
glancing up, he met the fierce gaze and cruel smile of the woman he
had so shamefully betrayed. She pointed her finger at him.

"Ha! ha!" she cried triumphantly, "this is _my_ work, Skelda! _I_
closed the gates and shut you all in with the outer door. My love to
you, my--_husband_!" This last word was hissed out at him between
clenched teeth. "My love to you, dear friend." And she mockingly threw
him a kiss on the tips of her fingers. Then, when the wretched Skelda's
feet were dragged from under him by a branch that had coiled round his
legs, she addressed herself to Coryon, who had now fixed his eyes upon
her, his evil face twitching convulsively with the fury he could not
suppress.

"See, great Coryon! Mighty Coryon! All-powerful Coryon! See my
handiwork! Yes, _mine_! See what a woman's wit hath done for thy
precious friends. What a day to live to see! I saw thee in the clutch
of thy prisoner; heard thee called 'coward' to thy face. It was sweet
that; and sweet to see thy prey escape thee! And this is sweet too!
Look at thy great friend Skelda; see how he kicks and shrieks! Think of
it--all my doing! See how Dakla glares! Now he and Palana are fighting
one another! Oh, but it is a brave sight to look upon! Fit even for
the gods ye have served so well! I think I am almost avenged; but the
sweetest of all is yet to come--when I see _thee_ given to the tree, as
I _shall_!"

Coryon struggled, but vainly, to get at her. She shrugged her shoulders
and turned her back upon him, then slowly approached Monella; the look
of triumph died away, and an expression that was partly of sorrow, and
partly of hard determination, took its place. Arrived in front of him,
she threw herself humbly on her knees.

"My lord," she cried, with clasped hands, "I crave justice at thy
hands, I _demand_ it! In the names of the countless women and fair
children whom yonder monster hath given over to the same awful death
that hath now overtaken his own creatures; in the name of my own bitter
wrongs and sufferings, I demand that this loathsome being shall not
escape his just reward. I ask that he be given up to that tree to
which he has consigned so many; and that first he be confined in the
same cell from which I have escaped. I will lead thy officers to it.
Let him be kept there till the wicked tree, with recovered appetite,
shall be ready to devour him! Let him there endure the tortures he hath
inflicted upon me and countless others!"

"Who art thou, daughter?" asked Monella gently.

She shook her head mournfully and replied, much as she had to Leonard,

"I am called Fernina, lord. Once, I was a joyous-hearted wife and
mother; but Coryon stole me away from my home to give me to his friend
Skelda. What I am now I scarcely know; misery and suffering, and shame
and infamies unutterable have made me--alas, I know not what!"

"From my heart I pity thee, my daughter. Thy wrongs cry out for
punishment, and thy prayer is just. Show my officers the place. Coryon
_shall_ be the last meal of the accursed fetish he has fed with the
blood of so many victims."

"I will go back by the way by which I came," Fernina answered, "and
will make safe again the covered-way; then will I open the gates, that
thine officers may take him in that way."

By this time the covered-way was empty; every occupant had been
dragged or had leaped out and was held in the toils below. There was,
therefore, nothing to prevent its being used again. Fernina went up the
path and disappeared from view; then soon the sliding shutters were
seen to move back in their places; and, shortly after, she appeared at
one end of the covered-way and beckoned to those in charge of Coryon
to follow her. He was led down and placed in the same cell she had
occupied, and there shut in and left to himself, and to look out, if
he chose, at his friends in the tree's tenacious arms outside. Some of
them were so close he could have spoken with them.

After Coryon had been removed, Sanaima turned to Monella; then raised
his hands and eyes towards heaven.

"Let us thank the Great Spirit," said he solemnly, "that hath, at last,
delivered our enemies into our hands, and that without the loss of a
life, or so much as a wound upon our side!"

And Monella added a heartfelt "Amen."

"Of a truth," he added reverently, "the wicked have been caught to-day
in their own snare. At last, we may truly rejoice that the curse hath
been removed, for ever, from the fair land of Manoa. But this is a
fearful sight; let us hasten from it. But ere we do, Sanaima, send
kindly and trustworthy people to care for the poor woman Fernina and
the other women and children who are somewhere within. I cannot now
stay longer; I must look after the princess and return to the palace."

"I will remain and look to them myself," answered Sanaima. "Now that
the Great Spirit hath at last given them into my charge, it is a trust
that belongeth to me, and to me alone."

During the foregoing events, several messengers had passed to and fro
delivering messages, in low tones, to Monella or some of his officers,
and speeding away again with their replies, or upon other errands. In
this way Monella had learned that the princess had recovered from her
long swoon and expressed a strong desire to return to the palace to her
father, and he had sent back word to Leonard to accompany her.

When, therefore, Templemore, with Monella and many more, reached the
great gates on leaving the amphitheatre, they found Ulama and all those
with her gone, and they now hastened to the palace after them.




CHAPTER XXXI.

'THE SON OF APALANO!'


On leaving the amphitheatre, Monella and his followers formed a long
and imposing procession. Only a few had been left behind to guard the
prisoners. These last were immured in cells pointed out by Fernina,
who was well acquainted with the interior arrangements of Coryon's
retreat. For within the rocks was an almost endless series of passages
and galleries opening, at the further end, on to an extensive hanging
terrace on the very face of the great precipice that formed one end of
Roraima's perpendicular sides. Even those of Coryon's followers who
had gone over secretly to Monella, were only partially acquainted with
the interior of this fastness; hence Fernina's assistance was found of
great use by Sanaima and those who remained with him.

It can scarcely be said that the procession, as it left the great
gates of the amphitheatre, exhibited, at first, many signs of having
just been engaged in a victorious and successful expedition. Those
who formed it were, for the most part, silent and preoccupied; for
the scenes they had witnessed--and that, as they knew, were still in
progress--were of too horrible a character to be readily dismissed
from the mind. But, as they proceeded on their way, they met and were
joined by fresh bands of red-coated sympathisers; and these, not having
the same reasons for repressing their elation at the result of the
day's proceedings, broke out into cheering as they passed the groups of
people who were now coming out to meet them. For messengers had gone
on in advance to tell the news, and the crowds who had been waiting
so anxiously in the city, soon learned that Coryon's downfall was an
accomplished fact. They had already heard the good tidings of the
rescue of the princess and her lover and friends, and were only waiting
for this last crowning announcement; when it came, they became almost
delirious with joy, and soon poured out to meet the victors and give
them an enthusiastic welcome.

Thus the procession that started so quietly--almost in sadness, as it
seemed--from the dismal amphitheatre, became at last, as it entered
the city, a veritable triumphal pageant, meeting on all sides, and
returning, cheers and shouts of joy and exultation. And when Monella,
with Templemore, Colenna, and others came into view in the centre of
the long array, every head was uncovered and every knee bent. Then,
when he had passed, the excited crowds rose and shouted again louder
than ever. And well might they do so; for they--and only they--knew the
full meaning of the horrors from which they had that day been delivered.

By the time they had neared the king's palace, the crowd had grown so
dense that it was with some difficulty that space was cleared for the
passage of the principal persons into the building. At the entrance,
under the great archway, Leonard, looking pale and anxious, awaited
them. Running forward to meet Monella, he said,

"I have heard the news and congratulate you all. But I am in sore
distress about the princess. We had much ado to bring her here, and I
fear she is very ill. Let me entreat you to go and see her at once,
and then let me know what you think about her."

"Certainly will I, my son," replied Monella kindly, and hurried away;
while Leonard turned and greeted Templemore and the others with
him. Then they all entered the palace and went up one of the great
staircases and on to a terrace overlooking the open space where the
crowd was assembled, and there awaited Monella's return.

Presently he came to them.

"The princess is weak and much depressed," he said, "and will require
care for awhile; but I see no cause for anxiety. Naturally, the poor
child is terribly upset. She grieves, too, about the condition of the
king her father, and wishes to help nurse him, but this she has not
strength for at present. Patience, my son. Be patient and of good
heart." He looked with pity and concern at Leonard's haggard face
with its hollow, dark-ringed eyes and its worn-out look. "You have
suffered--cruelly--I can see," he added, placing his hand gently on the
young man's shoulder. "You have been sorely tried."

"Ah!" returned Leonard with a heavy sigh. "You cannot imagine what I
have been through! My thoughts still dwell upon the horror of it; my
eyes still see the sights I gazed upon! I feel as though I shall never
be my old self again. And Ulama! Though I do not yet know how much she
saw or knew, I sadly believe she shares my feelings."

"You are both worn out--exhausted, my son. Wait but a space--while I
speak to the crowd and dismiss them--and then I will give you a cordial
and refreshment; after that you must lie down and have a long sleep."

"I fear even to sleep," said Leonard, shaking his head sadly. "I dread
the thought of sleep, for I know but too well what my dreams will be."

"Nay, my son, have no fear. I will promise you dreamless, restful
sleep," Monella answered, and moved away to the front of the terrace.

At the sight of his commanding form and upraised hand the shouts and
noise and all the subdued roar that till now had been continuous were
hushed. Then, as with one accord, all uncovered and fell upon their
knees. He spoke a few brief words and then dismissed them, pointing out
that his friends were in need of rest and quiet.

The crowd, in respectful obedience, quietly dispersed, and Monella,
motioning Elwood and Templemore to follow him, led them into his
private apartments and there mixed and administered to both certain
drinks that had an immediate and wonderfully revivifying effect. These
potions had also the advantage of stimulating their appetites, so
that they were the better enabled to take the nourishment he pressed
upon them. Then he accompanied them to their sleeping chambers and
bade them lie down and take the repose they so sorely needed. None
of the three had had any sleep or rest--for Leonard's swoon in his
cell and subsequent state of torpor could scarcely be so called--for
the past two nights. The two young men were not only worn out, but in
that excited state in which the brain seems to insist upon going over
and over and over again the events of the previous troubled time, in
that ceaseless, monotonous whirl that makes all efforts at sleep so
useless. But Monella--who alone showed no sign of the strain all had
undergone--sat down by the side of each in succession for a short time,
and talked to him in his low, musical tones. What he talked of, or
what he did, neither could afterwards remember; but the effect was
magical. As Leonard afterwards expressed it, a soothing, delicious
sense of drowsy rest crept over his senses; a rest that was not sleep,
for he could still hear the usual sounds around, but gradually growing
hushed and muffled. Then came a sensation as of being lifted and wafted
away by a gentle wind; and in the sighing of the breeze there seemed
a delightful strain of music, a dreamy lullaby that carried with it a
restful peace sinking imperceptibly into untroubled repose.

The strangest thing, perhaps, is that even the unimpressionable
Templemore was affected in the same way, as he afterwards admitted. Nor
was that all; for, on awaking, he was conscious of having had the most
delicious dreams, though he could not quite recall their subject. For
some time he lay in a state of blissful ease, striving to recollect
the dream that had left sensations so delicious, and afraid to rouse
himself for fear the remembrance should vanish altogether. He could
hear the usual sounds going on in the palace, the tramp of armed men,
and clashing and jingling of arms; but he was only half-conscious of
them. Then he heard his name called in tones that seemed to come from
the far distance, and, opening his eyes, he saw Monella standing beside
his couch and regarding him with a grave smile.

"Wake up, my friend," he said. "It is time you roused yourself. I
wish to have some talk with you and Leonard. You have slept for
eight-and-forty hours!"

Templemore sat up and rubbed his eyes.

"I feel as if I had slept for months," he answered in a half-dazed way.
"And I've had such curious dreams, or visions; I feel quite sorry to be
awake again. It's a strange thing for _me_ to talk like that, I know,"
he added with hesitation.

"What did you dream of?" asked Leonard, who had entered in time to hear
the other's concluding words.

"That's the strange part of it," returned Templemore, looking perplexed
and somewhat sheepish. "I've had a most extraordinary dream of some
kind, or a vision or something--_that_ I know, yet I cannot remember
what it was. All I can now tell you is that it was something so
extremely pleasant that it has left the most agreeable sensations
behind it. My very blood seems in a warm, delicious glow from it. What
can it be?" he added, looking in a bewildered way from one to the other.

But Monella made no comment, and went away.

"It's been just the same with me," said Leonard, in a low voice, that
had an expression almost of awe in it. "Monella woke me about half an
hour ago and I felt much like what you have described."

"It's very odd," Templemore returned thoughtfully. "It must be the
drink he gave us. Do you remember what Harry Lorien said of him? That
he believed Monella was a magician? I begin to think him a wizard
myself. But, dear boy, how much better you look!"

"So do you, Jack; and he tells me Ulama is the same--and it's all his
doing, you know. He _is_ a wizard; and that's all there is to be said
about it."

"The question is," Jack went on, "what was it he gave us? Here it has
made us sleep nearly forty-eight hours; and it seems, has done us, in
that time, as much good as one would have thought would have taken
a week or two to accomplish, and yet it has left no dull, drowsy,
listless feeling, such as opiates generally do. I can't make it out."
And, shaking his head gravely, Templemore went to take his morning
plunge.

When they sought Monella, he bade Leonard give him the particulars of
all that had occurred to him. Leonard recounted them.

"It seemed very terrible to me," he said when he had finished, "at the
time; and truly I thought I should never get over it. Yet--now--it
seems such a long while ago--so far off."

"That is well, my son," returned Monella. "For it has been a sore
trial. I have heard about _you_," he continued, turning to Templemore,
"from the lady Zonella and from Ergalon."

"I owe a great debt to her--to him--to both," Templemore replied.
"Without their aid I fear things would have gone badly with Leonard,
and myself too."

"Yes, Coryon had ably laid his treacherous schemes, and we all have
reason to be thankful for their failure," said Monella solemnly.
"Things came to a crisis just then. I had just matured certain plans
that Sanaima and I had laid out; and only the day before my long-lost
memory returned to me, and I remembered, all in a flash, as it were,
the whole of my former life."

"That you were--that is--are----" Templemore began; but stopped and
looked confused.

"Yes, that I am indeed Mellenda," was the reply, given with an air of
grave conviction. "I know the statement sounds incredible to you; you
are of that nature, have been brought up in that kind of school, that
makes such a thing sound impossible. But if _I_ myself feel and know
that it is true, and if my people around me know it and not only admit
it but rejoice in it, then, for me, that is sufficient."

"Certainly," Templemore assented, feeling very uncomfortable under the
other's gaze.

"Still--to you--let me be, while you remain here, simply what I have
been before--your friend Monella. I am the same being to-day that you
have known and, I hope, liked--that you have joined with in facing
danger and adventure--I am the same! The mere fact that I remember
things now that I had forgotten before makes no difference to me or to
our friendship."

This was said with a look of such kind regard that Templemore felt his
own heart swell with responsive feeling. It was true he had a strong
inclination to regard the other as a sincere, but self-deceiving
mystic; but, apart from that--apart from this strange delusion, as he
deemed it, about Monella's being the legendary Mellenda--Templemore
looked upon him with feelings of the greatest admiration, affection,
and respect. And he had never been so conscious of those feelings as at
this moment. He took the hand that the other extended to him, and bent
his head respectfully.

"Sir," said he in a low tone, "no son could respect and reverence a
beloved and honoured father more than I do you. No one could feel
prouder of the love and esteem you have been kind enough to show me; no
people, I feel satisfied, could have a worthier, a more disinterested,
or exalted ruler. If I find it difficult to realise the marvel that
you have related, if I have the idea that, perhaps, you are mistaking
your own dreams for actual realities, it is not from any doubt of your
sincerity or veracity--only that in that way alone can I bring myself
to explain the wonder."

"And I, on my side, respect the honesty that will not allow you to
pretend what you cannot feel," was the reply. "To you let me be simply
Monella, and let us continue on our old terms of mutual friendship and
esteem. And now I am going to rouse your wonder and surprise with yet
one other unexpected statement. Your friend Leonard here is not the
son of the parents he has all his life supposed himself to be."

Leonard sprang up with an exclamation.

"I will explain how. You have already told us"--this to Leonard--"how
that your supposed father and mother, with yourself, and your Indian
nurse, once stayed some time with a strange people in a secluded valley
among the peaks of the Andes. I was not there at the time, but they
were my people."

"Your people!" Leonard repeated with astonishment.

"Yes, my son, my people! Apalano, and two or three others of whom you
have heard me speak--all, alas, now dead! I was informed of your visit
when I next came back to them, for a while, from my wanderings. I heard
of it and what had happened; how Apalano's little child--his only
one--had been killed by a venomous serpent."

"The child of Apalano!" Leonard repeated in amaze.

"The two children," Monella continued--"Mr. Elwood's child and
Apalano's--were wonderfully alike, and your nurse, the Indian woman
Carenna, was very fond of both, and was in the habit of taking them
out together. She was out with them thus one day, and left them
both sleeping in the shade of a clump of trees while she went a few
yards away to gather some fruit. She returned (so she says) in a few
minutes; then, thinking one of the children had a strange look she
picked it up in alarm; at the same moment a serpent glided out from
under its clothes and went away, hissing, into the wood. But the
child was dead; and it was the child of the Englishman. Then Carenna,
frantic with grief, and afraid to tell the truth to her master and
mistress, exchanged the clothes and ornaments of the children. The
trick succeeded; for the dead infant was swollen and discoloured; and
Apalano mourned the death of his only child, when it went away, in
reality, with the strangers and their Indian nurse."

"Then," said Leonard excitedly, "I am----"

"Ranelda, son of my well-beloved friend! Ah," said Monella, sadly, "it
was a cruel thing to do. It preyed upon the mind of my friend, and, I
truly believe, brought on the fatal sickness. But for that he might
have lived, haply, to see at last the land of his fathers--might have
been one of us here to-day."

Leonard felt the tears come into his eyes at the picture called up by
this suggestion; and he said in a low tone,

"Alas! My poor father! It was cruel--very cruel!"

"It seems so," Monella returned with a sigh. "But God so willed
it. And He has also willed that you should be led back to your own
nation--that, after many days, you should join with me in the work that
I had set myself."

"It's very wonderful. Yet it seems to me to explain those strange
dreams and visions that were ever urging me on to attempt the
exploration of the mysterious Roraima! I suppose, when Carenna found
out who you were, she confessed?"

"Well," answered Monella, with a half-smile, "I made her do so. People
find it difficult to hide anything from me. I saw she had some secret,
and compelled her to divulge it. But, since she was so afraid to
confess to others, and especially averse to _your_ knowing it, I made
her this promise, that, if you desired to return from our adventure,
you should do so in ignorance of the actual facts. I was only to tell
you in case you freely elected to stay here permanently. That is why I
have kept it back thus far. I had intended to announce it to you and to
the people at the time of your public betrothal. Then they would have
received you, with one accord, as one having a right to rule over them.
And now you can understand why I have regarded you with such affection
from the first; and how glad I was to find, in Apalano's son, one so
worthy of my love and confidence. Your father was allied with my line,
and you are, therefore, akin to me. Worthy son of a worthy father! Let
me join with you in thankfulness that you have, after all, come into
the heritage that is yours by right! The young eagle was bound to find
its way to the eyrie for which it was best fitted." And Monella stood
up and laid his hand affectionately upon the young man's shoulder.
Leonard reverently bowed his head, and the other pressed his lips upon
his forehead.

There was silence for some seconds. Then Templemore took Leonard's hand.

"And let me too congratulate you, Leonard," he said fervently. "It is
good news for you--this; for, since you have elected to pass here the
remainder of your life, it will be a great comfort and advantage to you
that you have such good claims and qualifications for the position."

"I am thinking about my poor father who died of heartache and
disappointment," rejoined Leonard; and in his tone there was a note of
genuine sorrow. "And I can scarcely forgive Carenna--fond of me as I
know her to have always been--for her cruelty to him."

Presently Templemore turned again to Monella, saying,

"Did Carenna then believe this mountain was inhabited, that you would
find here the people you came to seek? Did you yourself think that?"

"As to myself, I can scarcely tell you," was the answer. "'Reason'
said that the hope of finding here the people of whom Apalano had so
often talked to me--for that was all I then knew--was chimerical; yet
Apalano's dying wishes, and some strange sentiment or instinct within
me, urged me on. Then, when I met with Carenna, I found she quite
thought it might turn out true."

"Carenna thought it?"

"Why, yes; but that is not very surprising, for, according to the
Indian ideas, it would not be the only instance in this country. There
is a belief amongst the Indians in several parts that some of the
unexplored mountains are inhabited by strange and unknown races. This
applies to those--and there are many; Roraima is not the only one--that
are surrounded by the curious belts of almost impenetrable forest. The
Indians believe that, if these forests could be passed, strange peoples
would be met with living on the mountains thus encircled; and they say
that on clear nights the lights from their fires may often be seen.[10]
Therefore Carenna was quite prepared to believe we might find Roraima
inhabited."

      [10] Mr. Im Thurn, referring to this belief amongst the Indians,
      states that he has himself seen, from a distance, strange lights
      on the Canakoo Mountains for which he was quite unable to
      account. See 'Among the Indians of British Guiana,' p. 384.

"I see. Then she, at least, will not have been so very much surprised
at our not returning, and may not have given us up for dead?"

"Yes; that is probable enough."

"And if she has heard of the signal flares we made when some
Indians--as I suppose they were--were camping in sight of the mountain,
she would look upon that as a sign of our being up here alive?"

"I think that is very likely."

"There is the suggestion of a little comfort in that," said Templemore;
"for, otherwise, those I left behind, and who are dear to me, must have
given up all hope and be now mourning me as dead. With Leonard it is
different. He stood alone in the world and has no one to grieve for him
more than as an ordinary friend."




CHAPTER XXXII.

THE TREE'S LAST MEAL.


"And now," said Monella, "I have some other news to give you; for you
have slept for nearly two days, and in that time much has been done.
While you slept we have been busy."

"Do you _never_ sleep--yourself?" Templemore asked.

"Yes; but not for long at a time. However, the long rest you have taken
is no reproach to you, for it was my doing. I saw that it was needful
to restore your strength and good spirits. You are the better for it;
the princess, the lady Zonella, and others have also had long rests and
are the better for it, as I have already told Leonard. The king Dranoa,
too, is better--in a sense; for he has now no mental trouble, and with
his sickness there is no physical pain nor suffering nor distress of
any kind. But he is very wishful now that the marriage of his daughter
should take place as soon as possible; for only then, he feels, will he
be able to die happily. In deference to his earnest wish I have settled
for it to be solemnised at the end of a fortnight; and, in view of the
fact that the state of his health cannot but be a source of sadness to
his people, I have deemed it better to order that it shall be a quiet
ceremonial, and not a great _fête_, as had been planned. This will not
offend your feelings, my son?"

Leonard looked up with a bright smile.

"After what you have told me," he said, "I feel, with gladness and
gratitude that it is not without reason that you have so often thus
addressed me--as your son. _Now_, I may indeed claim you as a father."

"You may indeed," Monella assented; "I take the place of my lost
friend."

"Then you have no need to ask whether what you think best pleases _me_.
If you will be my father, choose for me and instruct me; for I feel
I have need of your help to enable me to take up, and bear worthily,
the position I owe to you. I felt this," continued Leonard, with great
earnestness--"I felt this very strongly when I lay in that foul den
that the poor demented wretch called 'the devil-tree's larder.' I made
then a vow that, if it should please God to deliver me from the peril
that threatened me, I would thenceforth devote my life to the good
of the people I had come amongst. I repented sorely that I had given
my thoughts too much to selfish--albeit innocent--enjoyment; and I
vowed I would not be guilty of that selfishness in the future, if the
chance and the choice were offered to me. And now that they _are_, help
me--instruct me, my father, I pray you, in all that may enable me to
fulfil that vow."

Monella gazed long and fixedly at the young man; and in his eyes there
was a glistening as of a tear. Then he rose and went to the window that
looked out over the lake, and stood awhile, with a far-off vacant look
that told his thoughts were wandering to distant scenes or persons. It
was some time before he looked round.

And, when he again turned to speak to the young men, they were both
conscious that some indefinable change had taken place in his manner.
His face expressed unmistakably a great and exalted joy; and the eyes,
that at all times had had so strange a charm in them, had taken on
a new expression. For a little while Templemore strove in vain to
ascertain in what the change consisted; but presently it seemed to him
that they had lost that half-sad, half-wistful expression he had so
constantly remarked; and that they now conveyed, instead, a sense of
contentment and repose.

"That which you have now told to me," said Monella, walking slowly up
to Leonard, "is as sweet to me as water to the thirsty in the desert."
With grave deliberation he placed both hands upon the young man's
shoulders and looked into his eyes with fatherly affection.

"Know, my son Leonard--or rather Ranelda, as you rightly should be
called--know that in these words you bring to my soul the message it
has been awaiting--sometimes in hope, too often, alas! in doubt and in
despair--through the long ages. Yours is the hand--the hand of the son
of Apalano--that bears to me the key of my fetters; and yours are the
lips that announce my coming freedom! My work, then, nears its end, and
soon--ay, _soon_--I--shall--be--_free_!"

While uttering these last words Monella raised his hand, and with
upturned face looked rapturously above him, as if his sight, piercing
the marble ceiling overhead, perceived some far-off scene that, while
invisible to his companions, filled him with the most intense delight.
Presently, he turned away with a regretful sigh, as though the vision
he had been gazing at had vanished, and added, with an absent manner,

"Now, when I leave you, I shall feel----"

He stopped; in his eyes there was a far-off look; and Leonard, who
had been looking on with wide-open, wondering eyes that comprehended
little, if anything, of his discourse, exclaimed in anxious tones,

"Leave me--leave us! What mean you, my father? You surely do not think
of leaving the people you so love, to become again a wanderer?"

Monella shook his head; and, appearing to rouse himself, he replied in
quite a different voice,

"You misunderstand, my son; I speak of when I shall be called
away--called from this earthly life."

"But that will not be for a long, a very long time yet," urged Leonard,
looking with confidence at the stalwart frame, and remembering the many
feats of strength the other had performed.

Monella turned his eyes on Templemore.

"Do you remember," he asked, smiling, "a conversation we had one day in
the museum; when I explained to you that no 'Plant of Life' or other
specific--no power, indeed, of earth--can keep in its earthly cage the
soul that feels its work is done, and that, therefore, frets itself
against its prison bars?"

"I remember," answered Templemore in a subdued tone, and avoiding
Leonard's questioning eyes.

"Ah! then _you_ understand me. And now"--this with a gesture that
enforced obedience--"now let us go back to that which we were speaking
of. I was saying that King Dranoa desires that you and Ulama should be
wedded without delay. To spare the feelings of the maiden, and give
her time, so that the matter may not come upon her too suddenly, I
have named a day two weeks hence. There will be no pageant, no public
_fête_; only the necessary ceremony, quiet and solemn."

"I should prefer it so," murmured Leonard.

"Then that is arranged; and it will take place in the great Temple of
the White Priests that has been closed for so many years. Workmen are
engaged upon it, and it is now being cleansed and renovated. It will be
ready in time.

"The next thing I have to tell you is that Coryon has suffered his
punishment, and is dead."

"Coryon dead?" the other two exclaimed in a breath.

"He is dead," Monella repeated solemnly. "It seems that during the
night after we left, there were dreadful scenes in the amphitheatre.
Those large reptiles--they are called 'myrgolams' here--came out of
their pool and attacked the half-dead wretches entangled in the tree.
But the branches tried hard to retain their victims, and so--well,
you can almost imagine what took place. The creatures carried off the
miserable beings in scraps; tore them piece by piece from the clutches
of the branches till nothing was left!"

He paused for a moment, and his listeners shuddered.

"Thus it came about that the greedy tree was, after all, baulked of
most of its intended victims; all, indeed, save three or four; though
the deaths the others met with were not less horrible. Yesterday,
finding the monster had no victims in its grasp, I ordered the
separating door to be withdrawn. In a moment, Coryon was seized and
carried up into its awful gorge. With that, the tale of this terrible
tree must end. I have no heart to devote more criminals to it; though
there are some among the prisoners who are scarcely less guilty than
was Coryon. But these Sanaima will deal with; he will punish them as
seems best to him; and I have set men to work to dig a mine from one
of the cells so as to get underneath the tree. Then it can be blown up
with gunpowder. And I designed to ask you to superintend the work for
me," turning to Templemore.

"That I will gladly do. And--the--reptiles?" Templemore was doubtful of
the name.

"Kill them off, if you can, with bullets. And now, to turn to your own
affairs. Think not I have forgotten them; I know you are anxious and
will be getting restless and unhappy. As I said to you before, when
you go away, you will not go empty-handed. On the contrary, you will
carry with you such riches as will place you beyond the need of toil
for the remainder of your life. I need not say, 'Do not therefore be
an idle man,' for I know that you will never be. Whenever it pleases
you to go, some of my people shall escort you through the wood to
'Monella Lodge,' as we called it, and there await you while you go on
to Daranato and bring back such Indians as you require. Then, do you,
in turn, with your Indians, re-escort my people to the cavern; for, you
must remember, they are not used to forest life; nor can they, if left
alone, protect themselves against wild animals. Will that please you?"

"Yes, truly it is all I can ask or wish for," Templemore responded.

"I shall wish to know--that is, all here will wish to know," said
Monella, "that you get back in safety to 'Monella Lodge.' With the
heliograph mirror which you will find packed away at 'Monella Lodge'
you can send us back a message to that effect; then, with the one we
brought here with us, we can reply, and send you a 'God speed you' to
start you on your way. Shall it be so arranged?"

"Gladly," responded Templemore with emotion. "But must I then resign
myself to the thought that I shall never see Leonard or any of you any
more?"

"You must," Monella answered quietly, but firmly. "Leonard--or Ranelda,
as I prefer to call him--has asked me to guide him and instruct him;
and my first and last advice to him is, and will be, to keep his
people to themselves. Now let us consider this question from what you
yourself would term a practical point of view. The term 'El Dorado'
has come to be a synonym in the outside world for a sort of earthly
paradise, has it not? Originally handed down from actual facts and
history relating to this, the celebrated island capital of Manoa--the
Queen City of my once powerful and extensive empire--with the tales of
its wonderful wealth and the virtues of the Plant of Life; its memory
lingered through the ages long after the waters had receded and left
it isolated and unknown. And the Spaniards called it 'El Dorado,'
which has ever since been but another expression--as I have said--for
'Earthly Paradise,' or 'summit of every man's ambition.' Is it not so?
And seeing that the great curse that so long lay upon the land has been
removed, can you say that _now_ it does not deserve the term? Have we
not here a veritable 'Earthly Paradise'--an actual realisation of what
you in the outside world understand when you use the expression 'El
Dorado?'"

"Truly I believe it."

"Ah yes! It is so now--or will be henceforth, when those who have
had such sorrows here shall have outlived them," said Monella with
impressive emphasis. "But what I would put to you, is this; you have,
perhaps, seen something of frontier settlements, or miners' camps,
and gold diggings--at least, _I_ have--and you have heard of them.
Now, you know well enough that the only people who would care to brave
the hardships of the journey hither would be those led on by the lust
and greed of gold. Supposing things were reversed, and you were in
Leonard's place, and had here your wife--as he will have--your friends,
your own people--all that was dearest in the world, with ample wealth,
would you care to allow him, or any one else, to lead people hither, to
turn this 'El Dorado' into a 'Gold diggings,' a 'Miners' camp,' with
all their hideous associations, their gambling and drunkenness; their
rowdyism and their debauchery, their shootings and murders?"

"No!" said Templemore thoughtfully, "you are right there. Still--surely,
between that, and forbidding intercourse altogether--forbidding me even
to come to visit my friend----"

Monella smiled and gravely shook his head.

"You think that, between the two extremes, there should be some middle
course possible," he rejoined. "Unfortunately--or fortunately--there
is none. _You_ will have no need to come here seeking for wealth.
You would not be likely to undertake the expedition alone. Those who
accompanied you would do so from self-seeking motives. Then, again,
you will have other ties; you will have your wife, children. You do
not contemplate dragging them hither through trackless wastes to greet
friends _they_ have never known as you have? They would not like it,
again, if you, a man of wealth, able to do as you pleased, were to
leave them for a long space while you made the journey hither alone!
And, finally, the thing is not practical or feasible for another
reason. You will have much ado to find your way out from here. You know
that in these regions vegetation spreads rapidly unless--as in the
canyon we came up, or in the clearing immediately outside around the
cavern by which we entered, or out on the savanna--there are special
causes that check its spread. Should you come back in a year's time,
you would not only find the road we cut out impassable--you could not
even trace it. The spread of the undergrowth, the fall of great trees
or branches, the hurling down of rocks from the heights above, floods
from the streams and watercourses--all these, and other forces of
nature in this wild region, will, within a few months, have combined
to block up or obliterate completely the path we cut with so much
difficulty. Is it not so?"

"I fear you are right, though it had not occurred to me," Templemore
admitted with reluctance.

"Then, again, with the wealth you will take back with you, you will not
care to remain in Georgetown. You will wish to travel with your wife;
in any case, it would be years before you would be likely to think of
undertaking another journey."

"If ever you _do_, though, dear old Jack," Leonard burst in
impulsively, "if ever circumstances should arise to make you wish to
communicate with me, you can always do so by the heliograph, you know,
or perhaps by balloon, if I'm still alive."

But, though Leonard put on a cheerful tone, it was easy to see that
both he and his friend felt deeply the severance that too clearly lay
before them. Yet, after Monella's argument, they saw no alternative.

"I am as sorry as you can be," Monella wound up kindly; "but your
duties call you away from us, even as Leonard's call upon him to stay.
And now I must leave you, for many are waiting to see me. First,
however"--this to Leonard--"I will lead you to the princess."

Leonard followed him from the apartment into another, where Monella
left him; and presently Ulama entered, looking radiant, lovely,
beautiful--so Leonard thought--beyond belief.

At the sight of Leonard, she threw herself upon him with a joyous cry;
with her face upon his shoulder, she sobbed and laughed by turns.

"Oh, my darling! my darling!" she murmured in gentle accents, "if you
only knew how _glad_ I am to see you! I've had such dreams--dreams
about you--dreams that frightened me so! They _were_ only dreams, were
they not?"

She looked up anxiously, and fixed her glorious eyes upon his face, and
closely scanned it. Then she gave a sigh, the token of relief, and once
more she nestled her face upon his shoulder.

"Yes!" she said softly, "after all 'twas but a dream! For you look
well, and your eyes are bright and happy-looking; and in my dream
you were looking _dreadful_! Your poor face looked so thin, and so
_different_, and your eyes so sunken, and they had dark rings around
them, and oh! their terrible, despairing look! But it was only a dream,
or you could not look well again so soon, as now you do. Yes, 'twas
but a dream, my darling! But oh! an _awful_ dream. I thought there was
a great tree--like that you said you saw one day; and it was a tree
that fed on human beings, and you were lying bound and they were going
to give you to that dreadful tree! Oh, Leonard, my love, think what
a dream that was for me! Think, for a moment, what I felt! And there
were other dreadful, awful things!" She shivered and cried softly for a
space.

"Yes, my darling," Leonard answered soothingly. "But, as you say, 'twas
but a dream!"

"Ah, yes! And now it seems far off; for, after it, came other dreams,
that were happy and delightful, so that the bad one receded ever
farther. Just when I seemed even at the very point of death from
horror, a cool hand pressed tenderly on my brow, and brought me peace.
It seemed to cool the fever that had made me think my very brain would
burst; and a voice said--oh _so_ kindly--'Be at rest, my daughter, I
bring thee peace, and surcease of thy sorrow.' Then I opened my eyes
and saw a strange form leaning over me. It was dressed in a warrior
dress, just like that which stands in our museum and which is called
Mellenda's. Helmet, sword, everything the same. Then I felt secure and
happy, for I thought the great Mellenda had come to deliver me in my
trouble. But--and this seems so strange--when I looked up at his face,
who do you think he was? Ah! you would never guess! But the countenance
was Monella's--your friend Monella's! Was not my dream a strange one?"

"Strange, indeed, my dear one," said Leonard tenderly.

"From that moment," went on Ulama, "everything was changed, everything
was _lovely_. It seemed to me that _you_ then came to me, and led me
from that scene of horror. Where we went I know not; but, hand in hand,
we wandered on, till you led me home. Then once more things became
confused--I can scarcely remember--but I'm nearly sure Mellenda seemed
to come to me again. And--yes--I remember, he repeated, 'Rest, my
child; I bring thee rest and peace.' Then he left me, and we wandered
on--you and I, my Leonard--through the loveliest, the most entrancing
scenes; among places, people, strange to me, yet all delightful; and,
oh, it all seemed _so_ sweet, so restful, so grateful, after the horror
of that first awful dream! At last I wakened, and they tell me I have
slept through two whole nights and nearly two whole days! Did you not
wonder that you saw me not the while? Tell me how you have passed your
time without me?"

And thus the gentle, loving girl talked on with childlike innocence,
Leonard at first evading her inquiries, averse to mar her happiness by
telling her the truth.

Indeed, it was not for some days, and then only by degrees and
carefully guarded words, that he revealed the truth about her 'dreams.'




CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE LAST OF THE GREAT DEVIL-TREE.


Templemore did not find the occupation of directing the operations
for destroying the great devil-tree a very agreeable or engrossing
one. His memories of the amphitheatre filled him with disgust and
loathing both of the place and of the vegetable monster it contained,
and he never went near them without reluctance; for all that, he stuck
conscientiously to the task now that he had undertaken it. But there
was neither excitement nor interest in it to keep his thoughts engaged,
and to prevent their brooding upon his desire to get back to those
dear to him. Now that everything was settling down peacefully in the
land, and there was nothing specially to keep him, he felt he was not
justified in prolonging further unduly his friends' suspense. He saw
comparatively little, too, of Leonard, who was continually engaged with
Monella and others in councils and consultations that naturally had
little interest for Templemore; though, no doubt, they would have been
glad enough of his company and assistance in their deliberations, had
he chosen to offer them.

As a consequence, he wandered about a good deal alone; and took to
haunting the spot from which he and Leonard had made their signal
flares, and whence he could, with his glasses, just distinguish
'Monella Lodge' and the adjacent open country. Here he would sit by
the hour together, wistfully gazing out over the vast panorama spread
beneath him, and moodily watching for the slightest sign of life in the
far distance. Sometimes 'Nea,' the puma, offered herself as a companion
in his walks; at such times, when he went to the amphitheatre, he was
always in some concern to keep her out of the reach of the fatal tree,
lest she should meet the fate that had befallen her unfortunate mate.

It had been arranged that he would wait till Leonard's marriage, since
it was so near. But he had determined not to delay his going more
than two days beyond it; and he now awaited the event with something
akin to impatience. At the same time, he knew that the journey back
to Georgetown would be anything but easy or agreeable. It had been
arduous, difficult, wearisome, and dangerous enough on the way up, when
he had the company of Leonard with his exhaustless boyish enthusiasm.
What would it be like, he asked himself, going all that weary road
again alone, for he would be alone in the sense of being the only
white man amongst a number of Indians. Then again, he must return
with very little to show for all the time, and trouble, and danger
he had incurred. Monella, it was true, promised him 'wealth'--and no
doubt would keep his promise in the form of a selection of precious
stones. _They_ were numerous and comparatively cheap in the country;
so Templemore had no scruples about accepting such a present. And,
when he reached Georgetown, they would mean wealth. That was all
satisfactory enough; but there was much, very much more he would have
liked to carry away with him; things of much less intrinsic value, but
of greater scientific interest. Of these there were more than could
be catalogued in a few lines; vessels of gold and silver; wonderful
antique jewellery, specimens of their armour, swords, etc., were
some; dress-fabrics also; an endless number of curious botanical and
zoological specimens, for others--these form only the beginning of a
long list of things he had in his mind, and would have liked to carry
with him. But well he knew the impossibility; the difficulties of
transport were insurmountable. In a country where it was difficult to
get carriers even for the bare food required, it was obviously useless
to dream of carrying back with him a 'collection' such as he would have
wished to take.

There was natural disappointment in all this. It is hard for an
explorer to face danger, hardship, discomfort; to separate himself
from civilisation and from those he loves, and to risk illness, fever,
wounds and death, and then, having achieved success, to have to resign
himself to returning without those trophies he would have delighted in
exhibiting to an astonished and wondering world. But just, perhaps,
when he had convinced himself, by dwelling morbidly upon such thoughts,
that he had good cause for dissatisfaction, his good nature would
assert itself and remind him of the other side to the picture. Was it a
little matter to take back with him wealth enough to make his mother's
future secure and comfortable; to marry the girl of his heart, and to
be henceforth a man of means and affluence? And if his part in the
expedition ended in such result, had he any just cause for complaint?
Did he not rather owe a debt of gratitude to those who had urged him
on, in spite of his own scepticism, to share in their enterprise? At
this thought a rush of gratitude would come into Templemore's mind;
then he would torment himself in turn, with misgivings as to whether
he was not guilty of ingratitude in now feeling impatient to get away
from--to leave for ever--the friends who had thrown such good fortune
in his way.

And thus Jack Templemore felt anything but happy in the days that
preceded Leonard's marriage. And, of course, he was in love, and felt
home-sick; so, perhaps, it is not much to be wondered at that he was
restless and changeable and ill at ease.

Yet, had he been in a different mood, his stay in the place might now
have been very enjoyable, and of surpassing interest. He was free to go
where he liked and do as he pleased. The people were not only friendly
and willing and anxious to please, but showed pride and pleasure, if he
but spoke to them. The story of the rescue of Leonard and the princess
had been noised abroad and told and re-told over and over again, and
the part that Templemore had taken in it was well known. Then, again,
it had also now become known who Leonard really was; and the people
felt that what Templemore had done for his friend had been done for
them, inasmuch as it had saved for them the life of one who was of
their own nation and whom they now valued highly. Thus Templemore was
regarded as a hero, second only to Monella (or Mellenda). The people
were quite ready to credit him with qualities he did not possess;
for was he not the close and trusted friend of their own great hero?
If Mellenda had chosen this one from all the people of the outside
world--for they knew by this time that there _was_ a great world,
outside their mountains, peopled with white races--must it not have
been for some very good reason? Must he not be a great man, a hero, a
wonder, for the great Mellenda to have chosen him as his friend and
companion on his return to Manoa?

Thus reasoned the simple-hearted people; and, since it was also known
that he was going away from them for ever--going back to the outer
world that was his home--it created a sort of mystery about him. Must
he not be some very great man in that world that could not spare him
even to stay and enjoy the friendship and favour of their own great
hero-king?

So they regarded him with an interest and curiosity almost amounting
to awe. Mothers would bring out their children to look at him as he
passed, bidding them remember, for the remainder of their lives, that
they had once seen the wonderful stranger, the great friend of their
own great hero.

Meanwhile, Ulama had given herself up zealously to joining with Leonard
in the work he had set himself among the people. She had been gently
and tactfully told the story of all that had occurred; she knew now
that her 'bad dream' had been only too true. The knowledge cast for a
while its shadow upon her fair face, and she seemed to lose some of her
childish gaiety and to become more staid under its influence. But it
also called into play all the womanly tenderness and sympathy of her
nature. When she heard of unhappy women and children needing care and
comforting, she eagerly desired to assist in the work in company with
Leonard and Sanaima; and thenceforth she devoted to it all the time she
could spare from attendance upon her ailing father.

Amongst those in constant attendance on the princess might now be
seen Fernina. She had been brought to the palace by Sanaima, who had
discovered that her husband was no longer living. The meeting between
her and Leonard was affecting; he presented her to Ulama and commended
the poor woman to her kindness. Ulama knew now the particulars of the
terrible time the two had passed together in the dread cells within
reach of the great tree, and received her with a heart filled with
compassion. Fernina's gratitude and pride at the kindliness of her
reception were such that they went far to assuage her sorrows. Her two
children also were well cared for, and, by degrees, the old look of
dull misery in her face gave place to a softer expression that promised
to bring back, in a measure, her former beauty. It was understood that
Fernina would in the future take Zonella's place; for it had been
announced that the latter would shortly be married to Ergalon.

One day Templemore informed Monella that the mine had been completed,
that he had placed the cask of gunpowder in position, and laid a fuse.

"And the reptiles?" asked Monella.

"I have left them alone--and for a reason. It seems to me they are
inclined to attack the tree; have done so, in fact. They are getting
hungry and have nothing else to attack, and, being well penned in, they
are beginning to feed on the only thing within their reach. After all,
the 'flesh'--if one may so term it--of a 'flesh-eating' tree may quite
possibly form an acceptable food for these ugly reptiles when they are
starving. If, when we have blown it up--or down--they are disposed to
devour it and so clear it out of the way, it may save some trouble."

Then a day was fixed for firing the mine, and a large crowd of the
citizens assembled to witness the destruction of their enemy; but many,
whose memories of the place were sad, remained away.

When the explosion took place, a long tongue of flame shot up into the
air with a thunderous roar, the great tree seemed lifted bodily up,
swayed, and then fell with a mighty crash full length on the ground,
disclosing a rent in the trunk from which a thick, noisome stream of
dark-coloured fluid slowly flowed. This gave off an odour so offensive
and over-powering that none could stay in the enclosure; so the crowd
quickly dispersed, with loud expressions of wonderment and admiration
at all that they had seen. But Templemore remained long enough to see,
from a distance, that the foul reptiles had approached the tree, and
were greedily drinking up the liquid that flowed from the wound in
the trunk. And, visiting the place next day, he found that they had
torn the rent still further open, and were busily tearing the trunk
to pieces, the branches now showing but feeble signs of life. In
the end they fulfilled his expectations and devoured every scrap of
the monster. Thus ended the existence of the terrible, horror-laden
devil-tree!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was shortly after he had completed the destruction of the hated
tree that Templemore made a discovery that filled him with grave
uneasiness. He was wandering about among the heights that lay at one
end of the canyon--that immediately over the entrance-cavern--when
he found himself amongst huge blocks which had been quarried out (as
Monella had one day mentioned) with the idea of precipitating them into
the canyon to block it up impenetrably. On examining the quarry from
which they had been taken, he observed with alarm that some masses of
overhanging rock seemed almost on the point of giving way. A sort of
partial landslip had already taken place, and there were fresh-looking
cracks and fissures that threatened shortly to loosen the overhanging
masses and set them free to fall into the canyon below. He spoke to
Monella about this, and he at once accompanied him to the spot, and his
opinion confirmed his own. This made Templemore busy himself in earnest
with his preparations for departure; for he feared that, if these rocks
actually fell, the entrance to the cavern might be so blocked up as to
take long and arduous labour to clear it.

It being now within a day or two of Leonard's marriage this was all he
could do in the matter. But Monella sent men down the canyon in charge
of Ergalon--since the latter now knew the road--to carry in advance and
deposit in the cavern some of the things Templemore desired to take
with him. They returned on the eve of the wedding, Ergalon stating that
all they had taken down had been duly stored as desired, ready for
Templemore when he went down.

That evening King Dranoa was much better and insisted on presiding at
the evening meal. He even hoped, he said, to be able to be present at
the wedding. Ulama's joy at this, and the sweet delight that lighted
up her face, were alone enough to infuse happiness into those around
her. She looked at Templemore, too, and smiled and nodded her head in
a mysterious way that roused his curiosity; and, later, an explanation
came.

At the very end of the repast a mysterious-looking dish or tray, whose
contents were hidden by a golden cover, was brought in with a good
deal of ceremony and was placed before the king. Then Ulama glanced
shyly at Templemore and clapped her hands. At this the king lifted the
cover, and displayed to view--not some new eatables, as Templemore
had anticipated, but--a beautifully fashioned belt, and several
exquisitely-worked purses that all sparkled and flashed with the little
diamonds and other stones that were worked in patterns into the silken
netting. And, when Templemore looked inquiringly at Leonard, that young
man only smiled and nodded mysteriously like the others.

Then King Dranoa thus addressed him:

"My friend, thou hast already heard, I believe, that we do not purpose
to allow thee to depart hence without begging thine acceptance of some
little testimony of our appreciation of what thou hast done for us. I
say we, for all here--all in the land indeed--are deeply in thy debt.
Without thy courageous help and unselfish devotion my dear daughter
would not now be here happy and joyous as she is to-night, and my
kinsman and son-in-law that is to be would, I fear, only too probably
have met a dreadful fate. Therefore, we have all joined in subscribing
to these presents, of which we beg thy acceptance. The princess hath
worked this belt, and inside it are some of her own chosen jewels that
thou hast often seen her wear. The lady Zonella, and others of her
maidens, have worked these purses--they are for thy friends--and we
have all contributed to their contents. I know naught about thy world
outside, but understand that what is in these satchels will be of far
greater value to thee, and those dear to thee, than to us here. I truly
hope it may be so; else I should hesitate to offer them, as being but
a poor return for what thou hast done for us. If, however, they can
purchase for thee, in the future, any surcease of toil, of trouble,
of anxiety, then, and only from that point of view, may they be worth
the offering. Take them, my friend; and may the blessing of the Great
Spirit go with them, and accompany thy footsteps throughout thy life."

Then Ulama took the belt and poured out its contents upon the tray--a
magnificent, glittering heap of superb precious stones. Then she
emptied each purse in turn, making other sparkling but smaller heaps.
And each purse had a little label with a name to it; and Templemore
looked on in wonder as the contents of each were revealed and the names
read out by Leonard. There were three large purses, one for his mother,
one for Maud, and one for Stella. Smaller ones for Mr. and Robert
Kingsford, Dr. Lorien and his son; and two, still smaller, for Carenna
and Matava. No one had been forgotten.

Templemore looked from the one to the other, his heart filled with
emotion. Even more than the overwhelming value of the jewels, he felt
the loving-kindness that had thus taken thought and trouble for those
dear to him.

"But--Dr. Lorien and Harry--and--the others----" he said, hesitating.
"I don't see----"

"The good doctor," Monella explained, "will be sorely disappointed
that he cannot come to see us and take back to the world some of
the botanical rarities we have here, and which, to him, would be
great treasures. These are to console him. As to the others of your
friends--this is the least we can do to show our regret for the sorrow
and anxiety they will have borne on your behalf, through us. That is
all."

For some minutes Templemore was silent.

"It is too much--a great deal too much!" he got out presently. "I don't
know what to say----"

"Then say nothing, dear friend," Ulama interposed, with a merry laugh.
"Now let me put them back and show you how they all fit nicely into the
belt. You see, while you were working for us at that horrid old tree,
we had not forgotten you. Keep the belt always for my sake, and think
of us all lovingly in the future, as we always shall of you. Now I want
you to take me out on the terrace."




CHAPTER XXXIV.

A MARRIAGE AND A PARTING.


In the ancient Temple of the White Priests Leonard and Ulama were
solemnly made man and wife according to the custom of the country. King
Dranoa was able to be present at the ceremony, and nearly the whole
population may be said to have assisted, for they thronged in crowds to
the great building where in ages past their kings had all been married;
though comparatively few of the populace could find room inside the
Temple. The remainder filled all the surrounding open spaces, and
waited patiently to greet the bride and bridegroom on their way back to
the palace.

Templemore had a place of honour in the assemblage, and watched the
function with curious interest. Sanaima, with an array of white-robed
priests; Monella, with his commanding form, conspicuous by his noble
bearing; the beautiful Ulama, all suffused with blushes; and her
handsome bridegroom; the kindly, dignified Dranoa, looking weak
and pale, yet well-pleased and content; and the brilliant crowd of
spectators, officers in gleaming armour, and courtiers in gorgeous
dresses--all combined to form a noble pageant. The building, whose
interior Templemore now for the first time saw, was a magnificent
structure, and helped to add grandeur to the imposing spectacle.

At the conclusion of the ceremony, the procession, on its way back to
the palace, was greeted with excited and enthusiastic cheers and cries
that seemed almost loud enough to shake the towering buildings past
which it slowly filed.

In the evening there were general feastings and rejoicings. These were
continued till the night was far advanced; and it was morning ere the
city again subsided unto rest.

The following day, Templemore was busy completing his preparations,
and going round to bid farewell to those he knew. But, towards the
afternoon, he was surprised to see a large crowd outside the palace;
and still more astonished on learning that the people were gathered
in his honour. The good-hearted citizens, it appeared, liked not the
notion of his going away without some public mark of the esteem in
which they held him; so, somewhat against his will, he was called out
on to the terrace that overlooked the place in which the people had
assembled. Monella, Ulama, Leonard, and all the members of the court
and of the king's household, stepped out with him; and the first two
each took him by the hand, and led him to a spot where all could see
him. Then a great shout went up, and he was cheered again and yet
again, till the strange feelings called up by the unexpected warmth of
the welcome he received made him go red and white by turns.

"They have come for a sight of you, and a word of farewell ere you
leave us," explained Monella. "Will you not give them a few words?"

Templemore was unused to oratory, and he would fain have excused
himself; but he saw that to do so would disappoint his friends. So he
made them a short speech, assuring them of his appreciation of their
friendly feelings.

"The unexpected warmth and kindness you have shown in thus coming here
to-day," he said, "I shall always gratefully remember. If, in company
with the friends who led me hither, I have done aught that seems to you
to call for commendation, I will only ask you, in return, to keep for
me a tender corner in your memories when I have left you. If, when I
have gone, you will but think as kindly of me as I shall of you, then
indeed I shall be well repaid."

Then Monella addressed them in his sonorous tones.

"My children, I am well pleased that ye should have thus gathered here
to-day, and of your own accord, to show to my friend that you are not
unmindful of his part in the events of the past few months. I am glad
and proud that he should receive, before he leaves us, this proof that
my people are not ungrateful to one who hath done so much for them.
A great work hath been accomplished in the land since we three, as
strangers to you all, arrived some months ago. At the last, its prompt
completion was due in no small measure to your quick response to my
urgent call, at a time when hours were precious--and even moments.
When I left you in the times long past, I sailed away with fleets and
armies; when returning I was a simple wanderer. Yet ye gathered gladly
at my summons, and no voice was raised to question my authority. This
was well, and helped me to achieve success; yet might we have been too
late to save the well-beloved of your princess had not our friend here
kept all Coryon's vile following at bay till we could come to aid him.
If the dread devil-tree exists, to-day, no more, and all the wickedness
and cruelty that went with it have been trampled out for ever, if now
your minds are all at peace, and your daughters and your other dear
ones are secure--ye owe much of this to our friend's ready courage and
devotion; and I am rejoiced to see that ye have not forgotten it!

"Now will my friend know that he bears away with him the love and the
good wishes of us all. We wish him all happiness in his future life;
our sole regret is that he cannot stay and spend that life with us."

At this there were shouts and roars of applause, and other tokens of
assent.

"And now, my children," went on the speaker, "I have somewhat else to
say to you. The ancient Temple of the Great Spirit is once more open;
see that ye neglect not to there offer up your thanks for the blessing
that hath been vouchsafed you. Give heed to the teachings of the worthy
Sanaima. See that ye take to your hearts the precepts that he will
expound to you. So shall the good work that I have begun be continued
and consummated after I shall have left you."

Loud murmurs of surprise and objection were here heard.

"Nay, let not that which I have said arouse your grief, my children.
Remember my long life and weary wanderings to and fro upon the earth;
these have been a punishment to me, even as events, during this same
time, have been to you. Ye would not wish to keep me here when I tell
you that my task is done, and my tired soul is seeking rest--rest not
to be found on earth, but only in the great domain beyond the skies.
I may not linger here now that the work that I was sent to do is
finished. I have freed you from the curse that did oppress you; have
brought you one to govern you who combines within himself the blood
both of your ancient White Priests and of our kings; and in Sanaima ye
have a wise counsellor and guide. Seek not then to stay me; when the
Great Spirit calleth, weep not and repine not, for then is the hour of
my deliverance. Then shall I be united, at the last, to my well-beloved
queen, my Elmonta, and my children that have gone before!"

When Monella ended, he raised his hands and face towards heaven, and
stood gazing upwards like one inspired. His face seemed transfigured
and was lighted up as by a thrilling joy; and, as on the occasion of
his talk in the palace with Templemore and Leonard a few days before,
he appeared to see something invisible to those around him, but the
sight of which filled him with supreme content. Then he dropped his
arms, looked around him as though he had just awaked from sleep, and,
with bent head and tardy steps, walked silently away.

Ulama caught Templemore by the arm.

"Oh, do you think it can be true--what he says?" she exclaimed in
anxious tones, almost a sob. "It cannot be that we are about to lose
him? Do you think so?"

"Nay, I see no cause to apprehend it," was Templemore's reply. "Our
friend seems as robust and as strong as a man can wish."

"Yes! So think I, and yet--he has spoken in this strange fashion
several times of late. His words fill me with foreboding."

She looked at Templemore with such sorrow in her gentle eyes that
he scarcely knew what to say to comfort her. And just then he was
obliged to leave her to return the salutes of the people, who were now
separating and returning to their homes or their various callings.

The next morning, shortly after sunrise, Templemore stood at the top of
the hillside, not far from the entrance of the canyon--the spot from
which he had first seen the 'Golden City'--looking his last upon the
fair scene outspread beneath, and saying the last words of farewell to
his friends. Once more the people had assembled to do him honour, and
they now crowded the slopes on every side.

Already some of the little party who were to accompany him to 'Monella
Lodge' had started and were on their way down the canyon, and Ergalon,
under whose charge they were, stood waiting for Jack Templemore.
The latter was surrounded by a little group, of whom the chief were
Leonard, Ulama, and Zonella, who seemed as if they could not make up
their minds to let him go. Monella, his arms folded, stood apart,
gravely looking, first at the group, and then out over the landscape
with dreamy eyes, his noble figure, outlined against the dark foliage,
the centre of a half-circle of officers and courtiers who stood
respectfully a short distance from him. Templemore was dressed in the
same clothes he had worn on his arrival; beneath them he had buckled
on the precious belt with the jewels it contained; his rifle was slung
across his shoulder.

Amongst those around were to be seen Colenna and his son, Abla, and
others who had been amongst Templemore's first friends; and all
showed by their demeanour genuine sorrow at the parting. As a last
and special gift--one more token of his remembrance of his boyhood's
friend--Leonard had that morning handed to Templemore a deed of gift
making over all his property in the 'outer world' to Maud Kingsford.

"It is nothing to give, since it is no longer of any use to me," he
observed, with a quiet smile. "But, since I _must_ convey it to some
one, let it be a dowry for Maud in addition to the purse the others
send."

It would be difficult to say how many 'last hand-shakes' were given,
or how many times Ulama, with tear-dimmed eyes, pleaded for 'a minute
longer--just a minute,' Zonella, with sorrow in her looks, seeming
mutely to second the appeal. But the parting came at last, and, amid
loud huzzas, and the waving of hands and scarves, and other tokens of
good will, Templemore turned away and, with Ergalon, disappeared into
the thicket.

Little was said by either as they made their way down the rough path,
and, even when they rested in the shade of the half-way cave, neither
seemed disposed for talk. Almost in silence they ate the refreshments
with which the forethought of their friends had loaded them, and drank
cool draughts from the rocky shallows of the stream.

Suddenly, while they sat within the cave, waiting for the sun to move
so far that the path should be in shade, a heavy booming detonation
like the firing of cannon burst upon their astonished ears; and they
started up together and stood listening anxiously.

"What on earth can that be?" exclaimed Templemore.

Ergalon gravely shook his head.

"Falling rock, I think," he answered. "If so, it must be farther down
the canyon."

"Let us hasten," cried the other, a vision rising before his eyes of
the entrance-cavern blocked, and his being forced to return. "This is
what I have been fearing."

Despite the sun, he started off at a rapid pace down the path, Ergalon
following and striving, as well as he could, to keep up with the
other's impetuous movements. During the remainder of the descent
they heard two or three other similar noises; and at each of these
Templemore hurried on still faster.

When they reached the bottom, they came upon the little party who had
preceded them; they were standing in doubt and alarm, looking along
the valley, which was already partially blocked by fallen rocks, while
more continued to fall at intervals, crashing on to those already
fallen and sending up clouds of dust. With the group, looking on at the
scene in a sort of mild surprise, stood 'Nea' the puma.

"The stars be praised," Ergalon exclaimed, relieved, "it's all at the
other end."

"What do you mean?" asked Templemore in surprise.

"Why, the rocks have not fallen near your cave," was the reply. "All is
clear there," and he pointed to the hidden cave.

Then there were explanations, and, to Templemore's dismay, it now
appeared that Ergalon had mistaken his instructions and placed all the
things in the wrong place. He was not really to blame in the matter;
for he only knew of the one cave--that to which he had accompanied
Templemore when they had come down to fetch the spare weapons. He knew
nothing of any other cavern, and Templemore had not remembered this.

The situation was a trying and terribly disappointing one, and
Templemore found himself in a grave dilemma. If he hesitated, it was
plain his way would soon be totally barred. If he went on, and risked
being crushed by the falling rocks, he must go alone; leave behind him
everything he had intended to take with him, save what he had on his
person, and make up his mind to face the dangers of the gloomy forest
by himself! Even now it was almost folly to risk death or serious
injury by making for the cavern.

Templemore hesitated, the while that more boulders came crashing down.
Then he thought of what it would mean for him were he to be shut up
in the mountain for an indefinite period. He looked up keenly and saw
enough of what was going on to grasp the fact that the whole sides of
the canyon were crumbling and falling in, and it looked a sufficient
quantity to make it likely that the reopening of the road would be a
work of years. As that conviction dawned upon him, with a brief word
of farewell he dashed away from the group, and, despite their startled
endeavours to stay him and the entreaties they called after him, he ran
swiftly along the valley towards the entrance-cavern. After him bounded
the faithful puma; he had no time to give to the attempting to send her
back, and the two went rapidly on, dodging the great masses that now
crashed down faster than before. A massive boulder rolling down seemed
about to crush them, but they escaped it and disappeared in a cloud of
dust from the view of the spellbound witnesses of their hazardous race.

Just when they reached the cavern a great stone pitched upon one
already fallen and, splitting into several pieces, sent heavy fragments
flying around in all directions, like an exploding bomb-shell. One of
these fragments struck Templemore in the back, smashing his rifle, and
throwing him, stunned and bruised, upon the floor of the cavern.




CHAPTER XXXV.

JUST IN TIME!


At sunrise, one morning, a fortnight after the events recorded in the
last chapter, a party of travellers, consisting of three white men
and a number of Indians, set out from the Indian village of Daranato,
making their way in the direction of Roraima.

The three white men were Dr. Lorien, his son Harry, and Robert
Kingsford; and among the Indians was Matava. As they toiled along the
rough path it was easy to see that the travellers were, for the most
part, travel-worn and weary; they moved forward in a half-listless
fashion, scarcely looking to right or left, and showing but little
interest in the scenes that lay along their route. Only when they came
to the ridge from which the first view of Roraima is to be obtained
did any of the party exhibit curiosity. Here a halt was made, and they
all gazed for some time silently at the great mass that raised itself
high above the surrounding landscape. This morning, clouds hung over
it and it appeared sombre, dark and threatening, and gave no sign of
the fairy-like lightness and beauty it sometimes assumed when seen from
this same spot.

Robert Kingsford had come up from the coast, in the company of the
doctor and his son, bent upon solving, if possible, the mystery
that surrounded the fate of the two friends who had left Georgetown,
nearly nine months before, to join with an unknown stranger in the
exploration of Roraima. All that had since been heard of them was the
strange, almost fantastic account that had been brought back by Matava,
according to which they had actually found a way into the mountain, and
thenceforth had disappeared. The very entrance by which they had made
their way through the solid wall of cliff had been afterwards found
fast sealed; and no trace or clue to their fate had been left behind.
This had been Matava's account, and he had not hesitated to express his
belief that the three adventurers had been captured by the demons of
the mountain, and either eaten up then and there, or kept as prisoners
and slaves in durance vile.

This story, however, did not satisfy the minds of the others, and
Robert Kingsford, seeing and compassionating the deep sorrow of
Templemore's widowed mother, and the still more passionate grief of
his own sister Maud, determined to investigate matters for himself.
Dr. Lorien was detained longer in Rio than he had expected; but, when
at last he returned to Georgetown, he readily joined the other in the
proposed expedition of inquiry.

They had a very arduous and difficult journey up from the coast. It
happened to be a season of exceptional drought, and cassava, and food
of all kinds, were extremely scarce. The sun had been unusually fierce,
and the heat abnormal; hence, by the time they reached Daranato, even
the sturdy and seasoned doctor--a very veteran in tropical travel--was
nearly worn out; while the other two were in still worse plight.

Add to these trials the fact that they had little, if any, hope of
succeeding in their quest, and felt, in reality, that the expedition
was, at best, but a sort of forlorn hope; and it will be understood why
they had started from Daranato dispirited and depressed.

Thus, when they obtained their first view of the mysterious mountain,
the cause of all their trouble, they were not inclined to regard it
with any very friendly feelings; and its gloomy, forbidding look this
morning was reflected, so to speak, in their own minds. "There is our
enemy," they felt. "There is the fascinating, sinister chimera that
has bewitched, and lured away from us, our dear friends, and caused us
all this anxiety and useless trouble." And so, as Roraima frowned upon
them, they frowned back, and returned in kind its gloomy and unfriendly
greeting.

But frowns and angry looks could do them no good; so the travellers,
with a very few words of comment, continued their route towards
'Monella Lodge,' where they arrived towards evening.

Here, a mile or so from the 'haunted wood,' and almost, as it seemed
to them, under the very shadow of the mighty towering walls, they
set about making arrangements for a stay of several days. They found
everything in the cabin much as Matava had led them to expect; the
place, indeed, just as Templemore had left it at his last visit. Many
things had been left there that the travellers now found useful, and
that seemed veritable luxuries after the discomforts of their long
journey.

Kingsford's thoughts were intent upon his missing friends; and, indeed,
this was also the case in only a slightly less degree with the other
two. All were oppressed with vague suspicions of the Indians, even of
Matava. Might these not have murdered the three travellers for the sake
of the things they had with them--articles and stores which would
be as priceless treasures to Indians; therefore which might quite
conceivably have offered a temptation too great to be resisted?

However, amongst the tribe at the village, they had seen no signs of
'white men's' belongings to any unusual extent; and, now that they saw
what a number of things had been left undisturbed in 'Monella Lodge,'
their suspicions were very considerably lightened. For all that, they
found it difficult to believe implicitly the fantastic tale Matava had
told about the three adventurers' disappearance.

The Indians gathered wood and lighted fires, while the white men made
a careful and interested inspection of the contents of the habitation
and its surroundings (the two llamas had been removed to the village,
where, however, they had both since died). Inside, they found a lamp
and a small cask still partly full of oil, which was a discovery they
appreciated when it grew dark.

After their evening meal, the three friends sat for some time smoking
their pipes and discussing the strange situation in which they found
themselves. They were now within reach of their journey's end. If the
tale told by Matava were correct, and the road through the forest were
still fairly clear, they ought to be able to reach the mysterious
cavern the next day; when they were determined, if requisite, to blow
open the entrance with gunpowder. In addition to that which they had
brought with them, they had found a considerable quantity at 'Monella
Lodge.' This surprised them; for in this country gunpowder is more
valued by Indians than almost anything else.

The three friends were sitting talking, and were thinking of retiring
to rest for the night, when Matava came rushing excitedly into the
place.

"Come quickly, my masters," he exclaimed. "Come! Come and see the light
on the mountain!"

Somewhat languidly those addressed rose and went out. They had so often
heard the usual stories of lights seen at night on unexplored mountains
that they attached but little importance to them. They had treated
in like manner a statement by Carenna and Matava that some Indians,
camping out on the savanna a few months before, had seen strange and
unusually bright lights, that they took to be signals, on Roraima's
summit. The Indians had been scared and broke up their encampment at
once, fearing the lights might have been placed there to lure them into
the power of the demons of the mountain.

When, however, the doctor stepped outside, and looked up towards the
top of the stupendous precipice, he saw a brilliant flame that had all
the appearance of a signal beacon.

"It doesn't look like a forest fire," he said to Kingsford, while they
were examining it carefully through their field-glasses. "And now and
then I almost fancy I can make out human forms passing in front of it."

The others had the same impression, and Harry Lorien declared he could
see flashes of light, as though the beings round the fire were dressed
in clothes, or carried something, that reflected the firelight.

"Let us try burning a little powder," the doctor suggested, "after the
fashion Matava says was arranged between him and the others, but which
they never carried out."

So they sent Matava for the powder, and told him to fire it in the
manner that had been settled between him and Monella. It is true none
of the three messages agreed upon would be applicable to the present
occasion--but that they could not help.

Presently, three tongues of flame leaped up into the air, then suddenly
died out, leaving those around temporarily half-blinded by the glare.
Then they stood for some time anxiously watching through their glasses.

What seemed a long interval ensued; when, suddenly, three brilliant
gleams flashed out on Roraima's height, in exact imitation, as to the
intervals between the flashes, of the signals they had themselves made.

"Try another," Doctor Lorien cried, in growing excitement. "Arrange the
three differently this time."

This was done, and the answering flashes came back, again in exact
imitation; and this time with scarcely any delay.

Doctor Lorien seized Kingsford by the hand.

"Heaven be praised for this!" he exclaimed, his voice half-choked with
emotion. "It begins to look, indeed, as though Matava's account were
true; as if our dear friends may be alive after all!"

Words cannot describe the delight with which the travel-worn party
hailed these signs, that so unmistakably pointed to the conclusion
suggested in the doctor's words. There was one thing, certainly, they
could not understand; none of the signals agreed upon between Monella
and Matava had been given from the mountain; but they were inclined to
attribute this to Matava's having, after the lapse of time, forgotten
or mixed up what had been arranged. Only the thought that their
supply of powder was not unlimited restrained them from continuing
the signalling; but they were reluctantly compelled, as a matter of
prudence, to discontinue it.

"Now," said the doctor, "we can attack the 'haunted wood' with a good
heart. Surely, our friends will come down to meet us, now that they
know we are here!"

Before daylight they were all astir, and set off at once on the
journey through the forest, Matava guiding them. The road, or track,
was followed with difficulty, and was almost blocked at times. Only an
Indian's instinct, indeed, could have made it out. In places the rough
temporary bridges that had been made over water-courses had been washed
away, but, the water being very low from the long-continued drought,
this caused no serious difficulty. They met with some adventures by the
way, which were, however, suggestive of the dangers that lay around
them rather than important in themselves. At last, towards evening,
Matava told the doctor they were getting near the cavern. And now he
begged him to proceed with caution. He could not get over the fear that
the 'demons of the mountain' had eaten up or captured their friends,
and were now awaiting more victims whom they had lured on by imitating
and answering the signals of their murdered friends.

This theory did not find much favour with the doctor; for all that he
so far yielded to the entreaties of the Indian as to send him on to
scout in advance, while he, and the others of the party, walked in
silence behind. And, since Matava now moved with especial care, they
made slow progress.

As it happened, however, Matava's caution was in a measure justified;
for just when they came to the part where there was an opening in the
trees, and they could see ahead of them the light that came down into
the clearing round the cavern, Matava stopped and raised his hand.

All stood still, except the doctor, who moved up to the Indian's side
and looked whither he was pointing.

For a moment or so he could see nothing to account for the other's
behaviour. To the right the stream that came out of the rock was now
plainly in sight; and ahead of them was the clearing. The entrance
to the cavern was as yet hidden by intervening trunks, but the
light-coloured rock could be seen between the trees. Matava slowly
raised his rifle and took a careful aim; then, as though dissatisfied,
he lowered the weapon and stood with up-lifted hand enjoining silence
upon those behind him. To make sure, he turned round and, with many
gestures, impressed upon them all to keep motionless and silent; then,
having satisfied himself that they understood and would obey his signs,
he faced round and again raised his rifle.

And now, Doctor Lorien, following the line of the Indian's aim,
became conscious of a slight movement among the trees in front of
them. Presently--the Indian still waiting his opportunity to fire--he
saw that a great hanging mass was swaying to and fro, passing and
re-passing the space between the trunks of two trees. At first he
thought it was a large mass of hanging creeper, but, remembering that
there was no wind to cause the movement, he looked more closely and saw
that it was the head and part of the body of a gigantic serpent that
was depending from a branch above. Suddenly, Matava's rifle rang out,
and a moment after an enormous mass fell to the ground and writhed and
twisted about in horrible contortions.

Then a loud, hoarse roar was heard, echoing through the forest. The
startled travellers looked about on every side, but could see nothing
to explain the sound; then it came again and again, while the colossal
folds in front of them, half hidden by the trees, continued to rise
and fall, lashing against the trees and shrubs with blows that seemed
almost to shake the ground.

Matava advanced and fired other shots into the struggling monster;
then, watching his opportunity, made a rush and dexterously cut off
the creature's head with a blow of his axe.

And now, looking towards the rock, they saw the 'window' entrance to
the cavern, and the head of the big puma from which had proceeded the
loud roars they had heard; and by the side of the puma was a pallid,
thin, haggard face that they had some difficulty in recognising as Jack
Templemore's!

"You have come only just in time," he said, in a weak voice, with
a poor attempt at a smile, when the doctor had come near. "We were
almost done for; at least, I know I am. I scarcely know whether I have
strength enough to get the ladder out for you."

They tied two lassoes together and threw one end in; this he fastened
to the ladder, and, thus assisted, it was got out. Immediately the
puma sprang down it and disappeared into the forest. Then the doctor,
followed by Kingsford and Harry, climbed up and entered the cavern, to
find Templemore lying on the floor unconscious.

He was suffering from a sprained ankle and a badly bruised arm, and was
exhausted from want of food. It was some time before he could explain
matters to his rescuers; and they, meantime, were anxiously wondering
at finding him thus alone, with no sign about of his two friends. When
he had briefly accounted for their absence, he told how he had been
kept prisoner for more than a week by the great serpent that, all that
time, had relentlessly watched and waited outside. But, apart from
this, he could scarcely have got through the wood in his crippled state.

"Still," he said, "but for that serpent, 'Nea,' the puma, would have
brought in some fresh meat. As it is, I have had to share with her even
the small amount of tinned food we happened to have left here."

The flying pieces of rock that had injured him had broken his rifle;
and he had only a few cartridges for his revolver.

"It's all been unfortunate," he said. "They put all the things in the
wrong cave, and, when I came to myself after my desperate race between
the falling rocks, I was in darkness and the puma was licking my hands
and face. With much difficulty I found my way to the front here and
pulled the stone away; then found a lantern and some oil, and got a
light. The entrance to the canyon I found was all dark--buried--and
I could still hear rumblings as of further falls of rock; but they
sounded distant. I imagine, therefore, that the valley must be buried
pretty deep. I set about making myself as comfortable as I could; and,
when I put the ladder out, 'Puss,' as I call her, went out hunting
while I bathed my ankle and arm. Several days she went out and brought
in something pretty regularly, and I thought I should be able to nurse
myself up and get well enough to struggle through the wood alone. But,
one morning, she refused to go out; that day I had a visit from a pack
of 'Warracaba tigers'; another time when she stayed in, looking out
myself, I saw that awful serpent hanging from a bough; and there it
has been day and night ever since; 'Puss' refusing to venture forth. I
fired all my cartridges, except two, at it without any effect. It kept
ceaselessly swaying its head about, and my arm pained me and my hand
trembled; and, unless you can put a bullet through its head, it's of no
use firing at a creature like that, you know. If my rifle had been all
right, the thing would have been easy enough. I kept two cartridges in
reserve--one for poor 'Puss' and the other for myself--and I think you
came only just about in time to save us both." And Jack's voice shook,
and he felt a choking sensation in his throat. It was clear he had
given up hope and had been making up his mind to face death alone.

Robert Kingsford's gratification and delight in the fact that his
journey had, after all, turned out to be the means of rescuing his
friend, the lover of his sister, may be imagined. Nor were the others
less pleased; only the good doctor's satisfaction was clouded by
his inability to get out into the wonderful valley to obtain any of
the botanical treasures that lay so near at hand. But his chagrin
disappeared when Templemore, as some consolation, showed him the purse
of gems that had been sent to him.

"We'll give up orchid-collecting after this, lad!" he exclaimed to
his son. "No need to wear out my old bones any longer in toilsome
wanderings, when we've got enough to live on comfortably without."

Presently, 'Puss' came back with a wild pig, and great was the
rejoicing over the meal that followed.

Then all, save Templemore--who could only look on from the window--went
out to examine the reptile monster they had killed and to gaze in
astonishment at its huge proportions. The Indians had already begun
to skin it, but had not finished the operation when the time came for
making their preparations to pass the night.

These were complete--the four white men sleeping in the cavern and the
Indians bivouacking outside--when strange cries were heard echoing
through the forest. Instantly there was a great stir among the Indians.
With one accord they started up, exclaiming, "The tigers! The tigers
are coming!" Forgetting their fear of the 'demons' cavern,' they cried
out piteously for the ladder to be put out for them; and no sooner was
this done than they scrambled up it with all speed into the cave, and
pulled it in after them.

In reply to the amazed inquiries of the others, Matava explained that
they had recognised the distant trumpetings of 'Warracaba tigers,'
those fierce animals that nothing--not even fires--can stay or keep at
bay. Soon, in fact, the animals could be heard on all sides around the
cavern, though but little could be seen of them in the darkness. Their
growls and roars and squeals were answered by hoarse roars of defiance
from the puma that were deafening as they reverberated through the
galleries of the cavern. Outside, the 'tigers' made frantic efforts
to leap up and get in at the window, while those within had much ado
to keep the puma from leaping out amongst them. They also fired a few
shots at them, but in the darkness--for the fires had burned low--they
were fired at random.

"Why," said the doctor, "I should think there must be a hundred of
them! What an awful place this forest must be! I know that wolves hunt
in packs, but I never before heard of 'tigers' doing so. Wolves can't
climb trees as these can. It's awful, perfectly awful!" he added, the
while he listened to the diabolical noises going on outside. It was,
indeed, as a former traveller has expressed it, 'like a withering
scourge sweeping through the forest.'[11]

      [11] See Mr. Barrington Brown's 'Canoe and Camp Life Among the
      Indians of British Guiana,' p. 71. He says these animals hunt in
      packs of as many as a hundred or more.

It was hours before the din died down; and then, just when the tired
travellers were falling asleep, the most appalling, human-like cries
broke forth, sounding first quite close at hand, and then dying away in
a long-drawn wail or shriek.

Again the new-comers started up in alarm; but Templemore, smiling
feebly, bade them take no notice.

"It is only the 'lost souls'," said he.[12]

      [12] See foot-note, Chapter V., p. 52.

"The 'lost souls'!" exclaimed Kingsford. "What can you mean?" He began
to think the other must be raving.

"I know no more than you do," was Templemore's reply. "So the Indians
account for those sounds, and that is all I can tell you. Since I have
been here they have serenaded me thus every night--even sometimes by
day--and at times I have thought all the 'lost souls' from the Infernal
Regions must have been let loose for my especial entertainment--or to
frighten me to death or drive me mad--I know not which. I really think,
if I had not had the company of this faithful beast--she always roars
back defiance at them--I _should_ have gone mad."

Towards morning the sounds ceased, and sleep became possible for two or
three hours. But when, at daylight, the Indians rose and ventured out,
they found the great snake had been almost completely devoured. Only
some bones and a few bits of skin were left.




CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE END.


Templemore was carried, with much difficulty, to 'Monella Lodge,' where
an attack of fever supervened, and it was nearly two weeks before the
doctor pronounced him out of danger.

Carenna came over from her village to nurse him, and tended him as
devotedly as she had Leonard. In the height of the fever he raved
constantly of the great devil-tree, of gigantic serpents, of Monella,
and of 'lost souls'; and, mixed up with all, were a number of names
strange to those who listened to him; for he had been too ill when
found in the cavern to give more than a brief idea of the adventures he
had passed through.

While he lay upon his bed of sickness, anxious friends watched from
the mountain top for tidings of his fate, but received no intelligible
answers to their signals; for none of those now with Templemore knew
how to reply to them. Thus it was not till he was convalescent and
well enough to be taken out into the open air, that any interchange of
messages became possible.

Those below, looking up, day after day had seen little flashes of
light, of which they could make nothing; but now Templemore explained
their meaning. A search in the cabin brought to light the mirror
Monella had thoughtfully packed up and hidden carefully away; and
Templemore was thus able at last to open communication with his Roraima
friends.

His first signalled message to them brought back the reply:--

  "_Heaven be praised! We are all so thankful! We have mourned you
  as dead! And we are in great affliction, besides, for Monella, the
  great, great-hearted Mellenda, is dead! He died peacefully the day
  after you went away._"

Then, presently, when Templemore had sent back a message of sorrow and
condolence, another came.

  "_The whole valley at the bottom of the canyon is half-filled up.
  It would take years to clear it. And we pictured you as lying dead
  beneath it all!_"

Many messages passed to and fro during the remainder of the travellers'
stay; and then, after a time, Templemore having thoroughly recovered,
preparations were made for the journey back to the coast.

Both Carenna and Matava were grieved at the thought that Leonard had
remained on the mountain for good, and that they were never likely to
see him more. Carenna, alone, however, expressed no surprise. She told
Templemore that the deception as to Leonard she had practised upon
the good people who had received them so hospitably in their lonely
mountain retreat had, all her life, been a sore trouble to her. It was
some consolation to her, therefore, to know that he had, after all,
been led back to his own people. She at first refused the valuable
present Leonard had sent her, saying that to receive forgiveness was in
itself more than she had hoped for. But, needless to say, Templemore
persuaded her into accepting it. Matava's delight with what had
been sent him was unbounded; especially when Templemore told him
what treasures he could purchase with it: rifles, pistols, unbounded
supplies of powder, and unlimited tobacco, and other things that
Indians prize.

Meanwhile, Doctor Lorien and his son had been assiduous in collecting
specimens of all the botanical and zoological treasures with which the
neighbourhood of Roraima abounds; and, when the time for starting came,
they had good reason to be satisfied with the result. They might have
done still better, perhaps, if they had gone more into Roraima Forest;
but this they could not make up their minds to do. Indeed, they could
not venture far without an Indian guide; and this they could not get.
Neither Matava nor any one of the other Indians could be prevailed upon
to go into the wood again; and even the doctor was not very pressing.
All had had quite enough of the 'haunted wood.' For it now came out,
too, that Templemore had become a believer in the 'didi.' He declared
that more than once during his imprisonment in the cavern he had seen,
either at early morning or at dusk, strange human-like shapes--gigantic
apes--standing watching within the shadow of the trees.

Nothing, he said, would induce him to enter that wood again. And he
felt certain that only the fact that the entrance to the cavern was so
high from the ground had enabled him to escape with his life.

'Nea,' the puma, alone showed no fear of the gloomy forest. She went
hunting there daily, and nearly always returned with something to
reward her enterprise.

When all was ready for the start, two or three last messages passed
between the travellers and their friends upon the mountain.

"_Heaven keep you and all those dear to you! Your memory will always
be cherished by all here_," came from Leonard. To which Templemore
replied:--

"_Long life and happiness to you and your dear wife and all your
people._"

"_God bless you, Jack!_"

"_God bless you, Leonard!_"

Thus they finally parted; and a few hours later the homeward-bound
friends looked their last upon Roraima from the ridge near Daranato.
The mountain was lighted with the red rays of the setting sun and
towered up in glowing splendour. The greens of the wood at its base,
varied and vivid in colouring, as they were, contrasted with the pinks,
and purples, and reds of the precipitous walls above, that now looked
again like a fairy fortress in the clouds, smiling, and fascinating in
its light, aerial beauty.

"What a pity the city does not show!" said Harry. "What a glorious
sight it would make!"

"At least you have conquered the secret the mysterious mountain has so
long and so well concealed," Doctor Lorien observed to Templemore.

The latter gazed on the mountain gloomily. His mind went back to the
morning when he saw it first and the vague forebodings that had then
come into his mind.

"I don't know," he said doubtfully. "I have not brought away with me
the most wonderful secret of all--the 'Plant of Life.' When I think how
I was cheated out of that, by the mountain itself, as you may truly
say--for its very rocks came crashing down to prevent my escape, or
to kill me if I persisted; or at least, to insure my leaving nearly
everything behind--when I think of this, it seems to me that Roraima
has guarded most of its secrets pretty effectually, and I am almost
persuaded there is something uncanny about it."

Harry laughed at this; the more so that it came from Jack.

"That's very fanciful--for you," he returned. "If it had been Leonard,
now, I should not have been surprised."

"I am afraid my ideas of what is precisely practical and what is
fanciful have been a good deal modified," Jack confessed. "So would
yours, if you had passed through my experiences."

"Well, after all, perhaps you haven't lost much," Harry returned. "A
small bundle of dried plants wouldn't have been of much use, and as to
the seeds, if, as I understand you, they only thrive high up on the
mountains, I don't see what you were going to do with them. Moreover,
very likely they would have been eaten up by insects, or lost, or got
wetted and spoiled, or something, before you got back or could have
planted them in a likely spot."

Then they continued their journey, staying that night in Daranato,
where the great puma at first created a scare among the dusky
inhabitants, but, showing friendliness towards all, she was soon the
object of unbounded wonder and interest on every side.

Some two months later there was again a little dinner party at
'Meldona,' Mr. Kingsford's residence, and the same faces were gathered
round the hospitable board--all but Leonard Elwood's. Maud looked
charming and happy as she glanced, now and again, first at Jack
Templemore's bronzed face, and then at her brother, listening, not for
the first time now, to her lover's wondrous tale.

She and Stella had shuddered before at the accounts of the great tree
and its victims, and of the horrors of the 'haunted wood'; and had
talked of Ulama and Zonella, and wondered, again and again, what they
were like.

"Poor Leonard! I am sorry to lose him," Maud said. "Yet, I suppose,
he does not need pity; for he is to be envied in many ways. Fancy his
dreamings--about which we used to tease him so--coming true after all!"

"It is just a year ago to-day," observed Mr. Kingsford to the doctor,
"that you were at dinner here and first told us about that wondrous
stranger, Monella. We've had an anxious time ever since."

"I have never known a happy moment till you all came back the other
day," said Maud sadly. "I am so thankful that the cruel suspense is
ended at last. I have often recalled the words Dr. Lorien used about
Roraima; that 'its very name had come to be surrounded by a halo of
dread and indefinable fear.' I can truly declare that it has been so
with me. I, too, had come to hate and dread the very name. It has
seemed to me like a great, remorseless ogre that had swallowed up two
of our friends, and, as I feared, was going to swallow up my brother
and two more. Yet," she added, looking at Jack, "had I known how things
really were, had I known of your lying lamed, and ill, and alone in the
den in that horrible forest, I think I should have gone mad! What a
comfort to you this dear, faithful animal must have been!"

'Nea' was by her side, and she put her tear-stained face affectionately
down to the animal's head. The big puma had already established herself
as a favourite with every one in the house.

"Truly," returned Jack, "such thoughts occurred to me while I was
cooped up there. I couldn't help going over things in my mind; and,
when I considered how the mountain itself, and all the horrors of the
forest, seemed to have combined against me to prevent my escape, I was
seized with a sort of hate and detestation of the place. And, ever
since, my sleep has been disturbed--and will be for years to come, I
feel convinced--by nightmare dreams of the sights and sounds that haunt
my memory!"

"I feel that I have a grudge against it, too," the doctor avowed.
"Consider all the wonderful things you have told us that are to be
found inside! Then, just when I got so near, to be shut out in that
way! That 'Plant of Life,' too! I'd have given a good deal to have some
specimens of that, and some seeds. _I_ would have got them to grow,
somehow, if the thing could be done!"

"I'm precious glad, then, that you didn't," the irreverent Harry put
in. "I'm hoping to be a physician--one day--remember! And what chance
would there be for me and the rest of the profession, if you taught
people how to live for hundreds of years without so much as an illness?"

This very unexpected view of the matter from the vivacious 'budding
doctor' had the effect of turning the thoughts of the others from the
somewhat gloomy channel into which they seemed to have drifted.

After dinner, the belt, and the purses, and their glittering contents,
were brought in and spread out to view.

"Whatever else may be said," Mr. Kingsford declared, with emotion,
"there is not one here who will not have cause to remember the stranger
Monella, and Leonard, and their friends, with grateful feelings. And
you, Jack, above all; for, if I am any judge of the value of your share
of these things, you are a millionaire. And that brings back to my
mind the thought that is now constantly perplexing me, Who _was_ this
wondrous Monella after all? I really cannot bring myself to believe he
was--what was his name?--Mellenda, you know."

"No," assented the doctor. "As a man, I have the greatest liking and
respect for him; but, as a scientist, I am bound to disbelieve in that
part."

"Since I have no claim yet to be considered a scientist," said Harry,
"I suppose I am free to believe what I like. So I go the whole ticket.
I believe he was what I first pronounced him to be--a magician--and--I
swallow the Mellenda legend--whole! So there!" This very emphatically.

"Oh dear, _yes_!" Stella exclaimed, her blue eyes opening wide at the
doubting ones. "Why, of course, it _must_ be true. It is so much more
romantic and poetic, you know!"

Robert shook his head gravely.

"No!" he said, very decidedly. "I honour and respect the man, and
his memory, from all I have heard of him, but--I cannot accept that
wonderful part of it."

"Well, _I_ do," Maud exclaimed, looking round with a pretty air
of defiance, more particularly directed against Jack. "So that
makes opinion even, so far--three for, and three against. Now," to
Templemore, "of course, I know _you_ will side with the others."

To every one's surprise, however, Jack also shook his head.

"I don't know that," he answered, with a comically bewildered air.
"I've really had all my old notions so mixed up and blown about, that I
honestly admit I really cannot make up my mind. The whole thing is an
enigma that I cannot solve as yet--probably never shall. So you may put
me down as neutral--undecided--whatever you like to call it."

Maud clapped her hands; and upon that the puma gave a loud roar,
evidently signifying _her_ assent and approbation.

"Three for, three against, and one neutral," Maud cried "That's better
than I hoped for!"

The doctor laughed, and his good-natured eyes twinkled.

"You've all but beaten us," he said good-humouredly. "But, going away
from that part of the subject, I feel truly sorry to think that he
should have died so soon after he had accomplished the work he had had
so much at heart."

"There again I am inclined to differ," Templemore answered slowly. "I
honestly believe that nothing could have happened to please him more.
All his later talk clearly showed that. He said he was utterly weary
of life, and anxious to be 'released,' as he called it; yet his love
for his people was so great, he let no sign of this appear till he felt
sure all had been finally achieved. It was the fear that that work
might be upset after he had gone--and that alone--that made him so
anxious to shut out all future communication with the world outside;
of that I feel convinced. It was that that influenced him too, I have
no doubt, in making me promise to keep my adventures there a secret
from the world in general. But, just at the last, almost when I was
coming away, a doubt seemed to come into his mind, and he said to me,
'I release you from that promise, if circumstances should arise in
which you conscientiously believe it would be conducive to the good of
my country to tell the story of your sojourn here.' What he meant I
cannot conceive; I only tell you what he said. Possibly time may show.
He seemed to have the 'gift of prophecy' to some extent in those days;
certainly, everything went to show that he foresaw, or expected, his
own approaching death."

       *       *       *       *       *

This was all some years ago.

Maud Kingsford and Templemore were married shortly after; and Stella
and Harry Lorien are now married too. And, when the two sisters appear
in society, they excite admiration, not only by their beauty, but also
by their matchless jewels--that once glittered on the bosom of Ulama,
Princess of Manoa, and that had adorned, probably, the persons of
generations of descendants of former mighty kings of that once mighty
empire.

But of this nothing is known to the general public. Templemore and his
friends have kept the promise he gave, and preserved the secret of
Roraima. It was only a short time ago that circumstances arose that
seemed to him to justify a departure from the course he had hitherto
observed. This was when the dispute which has been dormant for just
upon a hundred years respecting the boundaries of British Guiana
suddenly reached an acute stage.

"Truly," he said to his wife, then, "I think this is the contingency
our friend Monella must have had in his mind when he intimated that
in certain circumstances I was to be free to depart from the silence
he had enjoined. It seems to me more than ever the case that he must
have had 'the gift of prophecy' at that time. I cannot doubt that,
if he were alive now, and saw that the future international position
of Roraima was hanging in the balance, he would wish it to become
permanently British territory, rather than Venezuelan. And, if he could
know of the present state of indifference--or want of information--that
seems to prevail in England, I feel satisfied he would wish me to do
what I could to awaken the English nation to the true facts of the
question that is at stake."

And that is how it has come about that, after some years of silence,
this strange story of Roraima and the ancient city of El Dorado is now
given to the world.


THE END.

what's up dadyo when did you get back on twitter? haha
like 2 weeks ago and it's going as terribly as i remember, but deg is still hilarious so it's ok
literally never about that account, love it.



answer me this fellow apple peoples: how many times in the past year have you used the escape key?
about 50 times today. terminal vim user.
seems the major complaints so far are from vim users like yourself. im wondering how force quit is gonna work.
cmd+opt+esc is good but still available via menubar



there was a greasy kid at highline who was basically miles dipped in a bucket of ranch
i'm disgusted
he flashed us then we scored so he sadly put his shirt back on # screwhighline
what a piece of crap



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
and then that mouse had the nerve to try to eat our kibble!  let this be a lesson fur all the other mousies!  



what day are you coming to effie??
tomorrow
im leaving today once i get off work
make sure i have a bed and seat saved next to you!



avi  hey boo
wbuttup shorty. 
you're beautiful ma !
appreciate that shorty, you too. 



does anyone have white spandex
yea
bet lemme borrow them
gotchu



what's going on fooly how u been doing
good  wby
working other than that living life you kno how that goes 
that's wbuttup 



my take on new rule - doesn't go far enough. cup drivers will still dominate nxs. but happy they are out for chase races #smallvictories
and the dash for cash races too
yes - although most (or some) of those are stand-alones anyway
do you think this wouldve happened anyway if it was another driver stinkin it up like kyle has recently?



ernie lost a bit of my respect too, just when you think hey this white guy gets it.... nope
what did these niggas say
kennys black, not for him. then ernie joins in "i'd never, it's time to stand together we'll never be perfect so don't kneel"
kenny's wife is white on top of that. u not gonna tell me u put a flag over the color of your skin.



i'll be back cute in 2 weeks
u cute now

 on the with irs



any hot chicks wanna let me touch their but today?
i got u
i havent groped that butt in a while i need dat
lmfao



so much to do before leaving for d.c. ahhh
i have stuff here
???
like if you forget to pack something



white girls singing about "niggers" stealing shouldn't have had to face any repercussions? .....
nope bc evidently it was 1) a famous vine they repeated 2) there was no malicious intent 3) it was all freaking jokes
they're not 5 year olds. them repeating what they heard isn't an excuse. it does not matter if there was malicious intent.
of every race say that word all the time to their friends. there should've been no repercussions, if there had to be then



okay so i know we've had our differences on pineapples on pizza in the past but there's something else that needs attention... eggnog
i  screws with coquito thoughhh. which is prob the same thing but who cares it sounds better lmao
what in the tits is a coquito
puerto rican eggnog crap is f i r e



just riding these ol dirt roads.
idiot.
k babe.
where you at



hate how y'all try to call me "fake gay" no.. trust &amp; believe vagina is wonderful to me, but so is your father. *hint hint* idiots

 yeah but some people don't like when you like dessert... they just want you to like the dinner
but just plain dinner is lame.. i like to have something sweet sometimes to. they get to eat what they want, why i can't?



whatever, i'm gonna uncork this bottle and have me a glbutt of wine.. 
just one?
naw...already on my 2nd glbutt lol
yeah!  that sounds like the tracy in my timeline. 



you are a crazy man trump, you speak without thinking what you are going to say. and your supporters are very racist.
dont you all het tired calling half of the country racist?
are you finish for the night?
yes. good night.



bad lighting fit selfies &gt;
my selfies got bad lighting? lol
nah my lighting on my phone was all the way down lmao
rightttttt lmfao



you work thursday ?
yeah i do
awesome! i was thinking about spending some time there to work on my schedule. think there would be room for me?
yeah there should be room. usually the desks behind where i sit.



jordan's  screwing retarded
i'll beat your butt 
i'm waiting
i'm near the gym fight me pussy



happy birthday kid. read this in 8 hours
alright kiddo. 8 hours.
okay great. now you can scream all the thank you you want. wait there's no cake... keep it. give me my happy birthday back 
i bought you a fudge brownie. it counts as cake.



i had the filthiest dream about one of my followers. filthy. like, i need to delete my account kind of filthy. it was that disgusting. smfh
i see

i think you are the bee's knees, but no. i can't even go along with this.



sooo.... did everyone on uapb campus tv's loose signal?
girl yeah.
well idk but mine did
my ls at the jbj said she did too



will you be at the phi delts friday???
is that their halloween party?  if you go i could maybe make an appearance . i miss you!
yes it is and yes i am! 
i coach till 9:30 but i could drive up!



today my professor said that painting comes too easy to me i'm like .... john... jonathan.... i've been working my butt off
what kind of..... what
honestly idk i mean i guess i get what he means like i procrastinate a lot n i should stop it was a roundabout way of saying it
ahh i got u



i want a pair of human race sneakers where can i find them
you bout to pay a arm for them craps
same price as a pair of yeezy?
if you lucky



what's the most futuristic toilet?
a sentient urinal that gives idle chit chat in a german accent while you pee. just spit balling here
where is the speaker?
within the cistern for authentic gargling voice fx. it always thanks you when ur done. eventually it becomes ur only friend.



lol my best friend at the time got cheated on, we wrote on the guys truck..he started chasing us, i tripped and broke my ankle #justmyluck
wtf
it was ridiculous  and i drove with my foot hanging out the window all  screwed up
when was this i'm so confused 



.
i was thinking about that today and i got so sad
uh oh guess you have to come see snl again this season !!!
i'm coming back in january! 



anybody wanna borrow a 20 month baby girl old for the day? bc i'm not dealing w her. 
dito don't do her like that 
i been ready to fight her since 5am she wouldn't go back to sleep but she sleep now so i'll keep her 
dito that how i be with sofi when she gets up in the middle of the night and won't go back to sleep



i don't always drink on tuesday nights/wednesday mornings, but when i do... it's when i just worked from 8am to 2am.
work in the nightlife, there's no restrictions lol
we usually work 8am-5pm. we just stayed an extra 9 hours tonight 
that sounds  screwing terrible lol



i heard that snippet 
unimpressed, huh? 
to say the least 
ya girl just ain't got the juice, no more.



ready to get in the deer stand already!
im going sunday just to see if anything comes out and to blast the hogs that have been on my crap
where's that lease at?
livingston



stormzy is the realest
what you know about stormzy? lol
ik hes the realest uk rapper
?



if somebody wants to play some of those ios 10 game things hmu
the what?
idk what they're called i just got ios 10 on my old phone and it's merely for whatever people have been playing?
ios 10 has been confusing af i still don't understand it all



on medium.
hope it's not a buncha articles on "boosting creativity" and why taking cold showers is great
it's (so far) a lot of stuff about bank culture, which is actually kind of interesting where my job is concerned.
only a hop skip &amp; a jump from "why i quit my job at the fed to travel the world, and why you should too  before it's too late"



someone stop me from biting my  screwing nails dude ughhhhh
i bit my nails for 14 years straight and there's honestly no way to stop it. especially it it's a nervous habit which mine was
and i still pick and them and it takes every inch of my body to stop myself to this day but it's been a year and i'm so happy
it's definitely a nervous habit i've had since forever and i just can't ever stop myself like the minute i see them



wait, what, rko to kane?!?! #sdlive
kane has been very naughty as of late. he's holding randy back. thus, an rko was a suitable alternative.
"getting sick of your crap, kane" *rko outta nowhere*. sounds like something randy would do.
.



when i get my period anything makes me cry, crap mad annoying
lool i hate that. like you know you're not soft and it's making you seem like that. that happens to me every several cycles
that happens to me everytime like its too early 
facts. ugh that's annoying af. i'm sorry 



are you home
si
let's go to woodbridge
have clbutt 



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition



i'm up at 3am practicing my costume makeup.  wide awake and crap
and never texted me and crap
dammit jordyn you didn't respond so i totally forgot #yourfault
don't yell



i miss my other half. 
miss you too

stop being like this



2016 conversations: "what do you do besides uber?" "i'm a picker at amazon." "a what?" "i pick products at amazon. there are weird ones."
had to google that one. interesting bloomberg interview on being an amazon picker
thanks. will check it out.
not as interesting as picking sex toys, but interesting in how quickly they onboard 1k emp &amp; no structure to their warehouses



singles is actually the best on gow4, reminds me so much of gow2. couple of wack maps for it but overall &gt;
really? i may have to start grinding those
yeah its a clear 1v1 for flame nades, dropshot usually. maps like lift are very interesting as well :)
honestly going to grind as many gbs as possible once the org is sorted. singles seem great if you can't get ft gb's



exactly i just got off at 12 wtf have i been doing since then
girl that's what i be thinking lol.
i'm not even sleepy lol usually when i get off work i be tired
like really, i'll take a nap or something but today i'm just up like its normal.



i need lady friends around here that'll do lame movie and wine nights.

yes please!!!!
in on this



if you like mayo, please unfollow and then block me, you nasty idiot.
but you don't like tomatoes....that's worse.....
tomatoes on sandwiches are crapty. tomatoes on/in other stuff is fine.
that's the worst argument i've ever heard.



a1 since day 1.
when y'all having bp?y'all need to stop acting jewish and hit me up.
 screw i haven't ran it with juan in a min  i'll hit you up when we do
he was suppose to have that bp tournament, i'm about to die when he finally gets it together



i want to go to a game in edmonton more than anything.
i will 1000% join you
i would sell my soul to the devil to go ... i would walk there shshsh
when do nyr play there



is sword art online 2 worth watching
meh. sao 1 was better. it's a lot more real world than virtual for kirito. not a huge fan.
lame. i'm more into the virtual world part of sao.
it's decent. but imo, sao 1 was better.



do folk even know nor care jane?
i think young people have been raised to feel guilty about their middle-clbutt life instead of being raised to try to achieve more
it's a cop out jane. back in our day we would get the crap kicked out of us. now, parents pacify children.
switch or hand jane....choose!!!!



lol guys i just did a race in olympus where the first olympic games were wbu?
did you lose?
lol i came third still got a medal
bronze is in this season



great day to compete... stop protecting your youth from the harsh truth in the world. protect them from the comfortable lies.. #staypositive
perfect!  "comfortable lies" it takes a dad to do that, moms hide children from harshness more often. "protection mode always on
takes people searching the truth in everything. history, the goshs you follow, holidays you celebrate, and perception vs reality
the gosh i follow is a big g not a little g the little g i followed (money, power, selfishness etc..) before the big jesus came.



bought an 8 packs of full sized doughnuts and a half gallon of milk for dinner at 10:52 at night cause yanno college
freshhhhmaaaannnn
plz get out of my mentions
srry i'll go this way 



this week is going to be real tough for dak prescott and zeke. this phi dl is legit and division rivals just make it tough for you
heard bennie logan is still out. that's big
thatd be a big deal
yea.  i believe it's either his back or leg.



emma's sim just died rip
wtf you had it for like 8 hours
i know and i was asleep for 6 of them! she electrocuted herself trying to fix a tv b/c she couldn't afford a repairman
oh man that sounds like me as hell



if the indians win, i may actually have to do a pub crawl in cleveland!
i hope the #indians win today in #standingrock #nodapl :)
naturally, i should like chicago. however, i just can't stand the despicable cubs owners.
well, i'm not talking baseball. i'm talking real indians in north dakota.people as mascots = bad



kanye is gonna be so  screwing lit i swear to gawd!!!
yaaaas
so you are going tomorrow?!
not tomorrow, november 23rd 



oh i just got hooked up with some dulce tamales and some chicken ones this is gonna be a good night
lemme get some
nah son only till u can ollie off my front stairs
i'll pull up tomorrow n even heel flip that dude



oh ffs... self-service pbuttword reset... using security questions 1: favourite childhood toy2: your favourite meal
you can use the veggie that is green and looks like a flower ? toys well you are on your own for that 
problem with security questions is people putting in real things like brocolli and lego and then talk about those things 1/2
meaning, they may as well not have a pbuttword in the first place, oh and this isn't for some little website... but for 



i feel the sudden need to watch all 3 high school musicals
you are so gay
whatever you say prince alex
you are an italian that's never been to italy.



it was so hard getting out of bed this morning 
just wanted to stop through and say heyyy
heyy, i hope you have a good day 
you too 



what is it to do on the tuesday
hey my homeboy round you still ?
yea his phone dead
he gone be dead next let em know please thanks



good morning #cowboysnation 

hiiiiii
what up sick



we don't want marriage equality - just decriminalization. u heteros can answer to gosh 4  screwing up marriage with your divorces and crap 
hi hi, can we have a kakao chat or an email chat soon - need your advice and wisdom!  alofa tele atu 
awww miss you papito  sure. email ymania at gmail dot com. we'll hook something up. love you 
yay! i will! talk soon! love you too powerful lady!! 



match anyone ?

wya ?
grambling hall



looking for the dodgers game on my tv guide...
did you dvr it??
must have missed it... they play again soon right?
yeah yeah, they kick the season off in april!



i just learned there are qu'ran reading competitions. im not gonna knock the hustle but how can you be better at reading than someone else?
ain't that what spoken word is tho?
i suppose so, its just an interesting concept, competing at reading a couple thousand year old book.
people will make competition of anything over time, esp. over such a large/diverse area over 1000 years



the longest game of checkers ive ever played.
lit
i aint taking this l 
u got this fam



instead of a song, i have this, from the revengers tragedy, in my head this am--vindice addressing the skull of gloriana:
"advance thee, o thou terror to fat folks, to have their costly three-pil'd flesh worn off as bare as this..."
love this speech, and students' faces as they explore it. a macabre blazon :)
yes!  even in this sentence, the way his disgust with the world hijacks direct address.



does anyone else need the word "hug" typed in between a pair of asterisks? apparently i am giving those out this morning. just let me know.
...maybe
okay i'll meet you halfway on this*ug*
thanks



so twitter wouldn't let me retweet something important so i liked it and it just disappeared from my likes wtf
strange
censorship of conservatives it's all over the place on here and facebook especially if you tell the truth about islam and refugees
yes, i noticed sometimes before i can respond to a tweet it disappears



warriors haters twitter off the chain right now
over one game!? 
yes! it's crazy
haters gone hate.  screw em



mo ran a red light 2 seconds before it turned green trying to act cool and literally .2 seconds later a cop pulled him over
he was so shook that when the cop said where are you coming from and where are you headed he replied "i'm going to vista from vista"
...yellow deli trip i'm guessing?
we were coming from the forum in carlsbad i was like wtf you're about to get a ticket for being dumb



dms opennnnn
keep them closed
why 
you letting out all the cold air



watching a show about space and my mind is blown. there's no freaking way we are the only ones in the universe, we are just a tiny speck
lol the one on netflix ?
yes cosmos? lol
it's crazy how small we are when he starts zooming out 



putting on jeans for the first time in forever and realizing you no longer have jeans that fit 
booty gains be like
lol but really, guess i'll have to go jean shopping
yes lol lush put stop while there too of course



if your goals consist of you leaving guam and never coming back, you're part of the problem.you can't improve something from the outside.
that is the truth, unfortunately
get your master's &amp; phd and come back mister!!
i may just come back. who knows. haha



it feel good to know i can have any nigga i want 
 you tuff as nails ain't you
lol not even close
oh that's what that last tweet said lol



there's a hold on my account so i can't enroll for clbuttes... and i only have 2 days to do it smh
emergency contact?
yes!!! but i'm not the only one.. a few of my other friends from cal poly said they updated a week ago and its still there
no it's like everyone:/



need to get some sleep
same
then get to it  or is it hot asf in your room too 
no not hot i just can't get comfortable 



you never sleep 
 screw it 
 you need to take some sleeping pills
them craps don't work 



do you like podcasts? check out draft kings so you can squarespace your audible dot com and enjoy a blue apron shave, whenever you sleep
how much money did this tweet make you
five million dollars
gosh you sellout



good morning glory.  isn't that bark art work cool?
you ought to see the peeling bark on the northern white birch and silver birch au naturals 
so the question was, how are you today.
good, fine as frogs hair, can't complain...not gonna complain!. and you? how are you?!



cheeszus fall arrived late but quick.  
it sure did, and i love it. it was almost 90 degrees like 4 days ago.
you would  lol enjoy your weather.  i need a flight to a 90 degree island stat! 
you'll be alright, just have a shot of bourbon chased with a pumpkin spiced latte. it will help



i need new music to listen to.. suggestions anyone?
notorious b.i.g.
for some reason i'm scared lol
you'll be on a whole new level of greatness and you'll probably be tied with beer on joes "love scales" if you like biggie



perfectly lonely
need some company ?
lil john mayer for the morning
does the soul good



i'm barely making it to clbutt 
at least you're making it 
 yesterday i ain't make it to none . i was stuck .
today is a new day. let's make this one prosperous &amp; productive 



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*



??? #getfamousthursdays
yes!!! also, fyi, i think of you pretty much every thursday.
no but like for realz i do too
same



game 1 tonight! who are you rooting for? #worldseries #baseballisthebest
cubs!
just had a thought earlier, is the start time of 19:08 just sheer coincidence or did they do that on purpose???
oh that's a trip! based on the final score, seems like more of an omen, than a sign at this point eh?



if you think about it, what's absent from the wikileaks emails is at least as intriguing as what's in them.
please go on, ron.
well, there's little or no substantive discussion of her health - neither confirming the spin of her camp or otherwise.
there's also very little about bill clinton, from what i've seen.



#dearcustomer it is not necessary to ask for a discount. you are buying a red plastic bucket that costs 99c. it just makes you sound thick!
but it doesn't come with a lid ya wanker!
*opens lid* you ready to behave now?
yes your majesty



he said "whenever i ask my dogs if they're hungry, i say 'do u want ur deener'" 
bre, let's sit down and talk about the fact that you have a crush on a 30sum married man who is obsessed with his derpy fur babies.
he's like 34.... only like double my age lmao
"only"  why him  why not like braun or someone lmaoooo



been thinking about this a lot, there's one woman who knows me inside and out, up and down, and my new focus is to give her the world
i'm done with the games , being off and on, petty arguments, like i'm done this is it for me lol.
ooooooooooh shut up
make me



can't find anything to wear for this weekend at all n it's stressing me out
go to the mall
already in the mall
hit that h &amp; m or forever 21. you'll find something



the deer are moving and getting dropped! my turn comes wednesday evening, thursday eve through friday night. yippie! will have a guide. yeah
good luck
thanks jake. i need luck on my side. i have the practice and planning. now i just need a deer within range and hope it pays off
it will



coolest foul ball catch run into the of from baez #letsgocubs #cubsvsindians #worldseries
i'm honestly hoping schwarber smashes one out of the park for you tonight!  #worldseries #schwarbersmash #bittersoxfanforlife
thanks peach! he almost hit one out last night!!
i know, too close! i hope the top 3 lineup put up some numbers tonight too! #worldseries #cubsvsindians #bittersoxfanforlife



mornin'
morning
:)
have a great day



im callin in dead for work.
still makes me laugh
this was me today. again. 
lmfao 



show: "the blacklist" this man was on the most wanted list but turns himself in to the fbi, but you'll have to watch to see why. he so smart
movie: "tears of the sun" navy go to save a doctor in africa but she don't want to leave all the ppl behind so they basically go to war.
show: "how to get away with murder," i don't have to even explain this one, you just sleep if you don't watch it but catch up on netflix.
lol i gotchu i'm bout to start watching this



had a distressing nightmare last night in which i had to defend my dissertation again
"we made a mistake and you don't actually have a degree."
wow how awful!!
i'm still traumatized from my qualifying exams. i can't even get to the dissertation in my dreams.



wtf man rip big ken 
big ken from where ??
the only big ken we know  reece
what in the actual  screw



i hate having to beat the  screw out of here thief butt friends we got
 who
wyees
that makes so much sense lmaoooooo



no one can tell a story in a song as well as eminem, don't @ me
savage
my main savage! how you been man?
shooot me i been kickin it yenno school n work



oh. my. gosh.
your snaps tonight! i'm soooooo jealous
i'm so happy rn 
i'm soooo happy for ya kev, you were def in your element



wth am i gonna be for hallosuween 
what's the move friday i'm pulling up lol
i actually don't know lol. my friends here going to ou for nia and them party. i can find out what the party is for you though
oh okay. you going to ou friday ?



starting today, any brock excuses needs to stay off my tl. he needs more time, not big enough sample size or any other bullcrap go elsewhere
he plays, its not for football reasons. play the other guy. find out. stay with brock, lose the team. they know.
i really don't think they know. honestly. i don't think they know.
that locker room knows what brock is. for sure.



it's  screwed up how even after he tried choking her his mom is acting hostile on my friend as if it was her fault.
. ;)
lmfao she is really pretty






just went out to my car to get my charger and the door was left open and it was tore apart from someone going inside it. i'm livid rn
stop leaving your car unlocked!!
cops are here rn. they got my dads, lindsis, the neighbors etc
well you all leave them unlocked tho. but dang. that's still  screwed up



it  screwing hurts to even lay my head down. gosh.
did you try taking some ibuprofen?
away. 
i'm sorry, babe. wish i could do something to help.



if algebra was a person... i would take its mom out to a nice seafood dinner and never call her again.
we have a test today too 
trust me i know...
you can do it babe!



last night was first night back to work since the hurricane.i'm feeling it. #nurselife
did you have a lot of damage?
i did have a significant amount of damage. still out of electricity..i was loaned a generator this past weekend. blessing!
i'm so sorry, but i am glad you have generator now!! we lost a dock and a boat in the hurricane! downed trees, but no damage to hous



cant decide whether i want to go to sleep now and wake up at 4:30 or study till 5 and then go to sleep
i've always went with sleeping early and waking up early to study.
i've never trusted myself to wake up but i'm gonna try it lol 
lol be careful there were a few times i definitely just stayed sleep 



going to see kanye. 
which show!
we are going to sac!!
oh crap sick i'm going to the inglewood one next wednesday



8:38 am over here and it's my day! can i please  get a day tweet? love from belgium 
happy birthday rose hope you have a fun day.
thanks! plan to lunch with best friend and have lots of girly talks 
sounds like fun



can you make hot chocolate in the oven
uh no don't think so
darn it :/
try a microwave



it's so stupid you're "supposed" to drink soda for upset stomachs but coke &amp; sprite have so many mg of sugar so if you're diabetic...
sparkling water does the trick too.
yes! i got her some. my nana was giving her soda 
nana the troll 



portland's system similar to atl's cultivates pbutting. plumlee made insane strides there last yr. afa &amp; harkless threw some beauts tonight
dude... dame is gonna be even more amazing this season? he was putting up a few from curry range last season...
he's really  screwing good, and even better when teams employ drop back schemes on him
what are you expecting for wiggins and lavine this season? we already know towns da gawd



, you have some free time?
and by free, i just mean available. i'll double your fee if you do your worst. and if we can do it by the end of october?
that's a real time crunch, but i can try &amp; put something together for you. what are the specs?
i'll text you around 10:30, looking for a super professional and persuasive set up. almost like a campaign.



we wagering on this game? 
woah, if we did wager something, what would we have done?!
dang! fantastic question. i guess we would have to agree to wait for the next one on 12/24, yeah?
yes, we'll have to figure something out!



you do what you do and you pay for your sins and there's no such thing as what might have been
heard your loud butt going up the interstate earlier 
 which side of the interstate were you on
going toward opelika lol



i remember early in high school i couldn't get a date to save my life.
same but it's k because now i have u :d so i win

ugly duckling syndrome unite



if i gave you a nick name just know that i like you
what's mine
idk yet lol
friendship over smh



i change my mind i'm getting feed in ghana braids 
they going to look good on you 
thank you .
add me on snap so i can see them when you done kfree112



good night karen 
good night terri, sleep well 
still wide awake &amp; got to be up in three hours watching cher on youtube 
i'm wide awake cause i'm at work, keeping the world safe &amp; saving lives, lol 



i got fake people showin fake love to me
stfu
no one asked for your opinion
stfu






rich bring me a davys juicy "burger"
too late fam
story of my life



do you work for cbs news?
i'm retired now.
oh. hope you like that.
thanks connie.



i need a cowboys shirt. somebody hook me up

you offering?  our anniversary coming up 
dallas cowboys?



will be taking bets on the game sunday
eagle vs cowboys?
yessir !
lol i ain't gone do it. that could really go either way. all depends on who defense wants it more



i had lot of respect for your democracy struggle, but asking players to stop #pushups takes away all that! #cantbemoreridiculous
read his tweets
i can't read his tweets - as he protects them for his cronies &amp; pushers!!
i dmed them to u



power tripping and changing answers mid way through the event
and they kicked my friend cus she glitched sigh
sort your fansites out!!!
yeah its acc ridiculous, now she cant get back in :(



or maybe if i went to bed at a decent time it wouldn't be so bad 
so curtis or nah?
yessss meet you in the lobby dobby...at 7:30 lmao
i'll be sitting down there at 7:29 lol



did you know that following me 10 times on soundcloud will not get you a follow back? if i like what you make, you'll get followed i promise
did you know that spamming your song on my mentions won't even get me to open your song?
and i don't wanna sound mean or anything.. it's just not the right way to approach anyone..
why don't u promote more dvbbs :/



i apologize, johnny. #rebels beat the helicopter sabers with "ezra won the clone wars". looking like 3 good eps this season
ep 28 this thursday!!!
hopefully not in the dftg segment :d
lol no



#whatimgoodat forgetting why i walked into a room. i'm not just good at it, i excel.
they actually did a study. walking through doorways makes your brain reconfigure. if u go back2 previous room, u'll remember 
well i tested the theory...it worked! hopefully it does next time, and the next time,  and the next time, etc...lol.
learn something new every day!!



just knocked my first racist athens frat boy out.  how y'all gone try to jump me cause your girl asked to come home with me?
it's lit!!!!!!!
niggas tried to jump me 
you got jumped by some dudes wearing vineyard vine? lol



look at my asthma being a dummy.
rosemary tea w cod liver oil. try it sometime.
goshhh cod liver oil?
substitute for fresh whale oil then



dogs are beautiful and perfect i love all of them
i love dogs more than you
ditto
this doesn't even make sense stop



someoneeee talk to mee
nobody wants to talk to your smelly butt
srry but that's you that stankkk
nah nah thats your upper lip



so how about that warriors super team! whoa! super, indeed!
had to come check your twitter feed as soon as i saw the score this morning.
nothing crazy but hopefully it wasn't a total disappointment... like the warriors.
and utah lost too. big day for you



so blessed to have my mom as my best friend, wow
you avi 
aww, i miss you
i miss you too  i hope browns everything you hoped for and more 



what if my soulmate was a prostitute 
that crap would  screwing suck
i'd just kill her pimp and set her free
like an animal in captivity



sorry reip
ehat
im sorry nhi
what r u sorry for im scared



cant wait for the next #pangea 
why you not here 
i just woke up and by the time i get to clbutt the test gone end  so  screw it.
the crap 85 questions bruh



it infuriates me that i have to use my key to unlock my door to leave my apartment.
easy peasy don't lock the doors.
then anyone could just sneak in and get me!
nah you'll be okay. unless the clowns come.



why ppl be so tight when you ain't following them on here
b butt hurt cause somebody unfollows them 
on gawd loll like i still fwu bro 
cause people let social media control them like gosh dang this ain't real life lmao






no because she has 30 years of political baggage, lots of complex relationships/conflicts, and a serious email problem...
the 'baggage' is all from a relentless misogynistic cottage witch hunt industry press freely regurgitates. it's a gauntlet
she was cleared by doj/fbi on emails and the private personal ones stolen by a hostile foreign state aren't even her emails



i love how i say something about my tradition and my family is the first to write something on fb hahaha
what if it's about me? ayz jk! hope the l is treating you well.  miss my apache!
if its about you then you have no worries!! lawrence sucks without you! i miss my jenny (forest gump voice)
darn!  i bet! this girl sure misses the l,k! are you staying in my old room? haha!



currently starving
eatt
idiot i would i'm in clbutt
lol i'll get food



same exept i started being lazy
miss u !
i miss you too! i miss watchin your broadcasts i still listen to your music a lot and watch your youtube videos every week tho
thank you for watching the videos :)))) i'm gunna be broadcasting more when i am on the road ! but i'm gunna use periscope:)



gad i'm full of itfluff i honestly wish one day just once i can write like squealing rubber burning spin out of control n not look back
i like what you write, no fluff that i've ever seen!
thanx hey i think it's more for me not being brave enough only rarely i get near the border ... like stage fright :)) 
i get that, yup. i think we all get near the border sometimes, and step back or walk away. some days are not the day, right?



found out since i am 3rd gen italian-american i can apply for italian citizenship so why not 
we agree! let us know if you need any help finding italian documents or verifying eligibility
i was told i need my great grandparents' birth certs? &amp; proof they weren't us citizens till after my grandfather was born?
we dmd you



bring you over, i'll teach you how to cook 
i don't need to learn you got me messed up lol
then cook me dinner tmrw night
no idiot you cook your own dinner since you know how to cook so well



have to leave conversation when i'm sent the cx face
same.
its so ugly
na its sick



2000-2016 rap&gt;all of 90s rap
debatable
2000 on gave us ye, gambino, eminem (not a big fan but i respect the wordplay and flow) some outlast, the clipse
but 90s and before started this






why is there no dragon ball z the musical?
if there was i'd be more likely to watch dbz
there was pokemon the musical featuring cast members from wicked and the book of mormon!



je veux, pis en mme temps je veux pas.
roche papier ciseaux?
roche
too bad, ciseaux...



are you in clbutt?
yea he not here yet
dang i think imma come
yea come chloe



imagine painting the same bikeshed 16x!!!
meh. everyone knows you should pai t it 23 times.
moar coats give the bike shed a more robust look
baselayering



i'm srry but ur so ugly with ur pineapple headed butt  can't help it
you're dumb  pineapple head
fr thooo, i seen a pic of this idiot on fb n i just cringed the rest of the day.
i can see your face now! 



 you're profile pic...you so gorgeous!
awwww thank you jackie 
love you  let's catch up soon! missing ya!
yes please 



i watched "hate rising" last night. highly recommended. the corridor scene with ramos and the trump camaign says it all. #nevertrump
i dvred it. haven't finished watching it yet. was at the point where he was interviewing the second guy.
the weirdo nazi groups are as expected - it's the people who might pbutt for normal who are shocking.
cloak the racism in "white nationalism" and all of a sudden it becomes a lot more palpable.



did you hear about the latest bloomberg poll from florida? how anyone can see that man as fit for the office... crazy!
wow! trump+2! on one hand this is bad. on the other hand it's good because it'll make people go vote!
that's a good point, i hope you are correct. hard to understand how we have to keep debating the case against trump.
the man has insulted and discriminated against the disabled, races, religions, nationalities, women! send him to washington!



vampire diaries, season 7, episode 6. i can't with my emotions rn
season 7 episode 9 wtf
just wait. i just finished 7!!!
i'm in tears lol



i need a v good photographer based in minneapolis, who's available sometime between now + next friday. it's for a cover shoot. pls rt!
will get whatever look you're after. he's got a great eye.
thank you!
i've got other recs too, if need be. but start with darin. he's great. 



you can get actual meals at the cheesecake factory???
i have never gone there
yeah, the portions are mbuttive and completely lacking in any seasoning other than pepper, but you can
most people eat then cheesecake



peed 400+ times last night so i feel like i didn't even sleep
you're having a baby!
i'm ready but she's still not making any signs of appearing anytime soon  just chillin on my bladder lol
she's working silently. my second baby did all his work in my sleep, i woke up my plug was coming out &amp; 9cm dilated - i was 



i have a lot of strong feelings about grilled cheese
how about vegan grilled cheese
fun fact: the best grilled cheese i've ever had in my life was vegan
mine too



tomorrow will make 300 days of complete sobriety from all drugs. so proud of myself 
no weed?!
nope!! nothing 
proud of you love 



morning!
morning jamie, how are you?
feeling okay... working to get rid of this fatigue
i hope you're able to overcome the fatigue and have a great day



. ask me anything about a walk to remember.
i based the walk to remember on a different walk that was equally memorable. i was with a dame. she probably was wearing a sweater.
?
i'm currently writing a book about robot boobs called breastworld. i'd like you to review it.



i lost 8lbs in 7 days eating only salads, turkey meat, grilled chicken breasts, grapes, and 2 gallons of water a day.
oh it's lit. congrats boo. i really need to do something.
i gotta lose about 30 more before i go home for tg. i had to tame my sugar crave. i got it under control now
how sway? i need to lose 30 period.



dunkin needs to stop dudein me and let me start working already.
apply to amazon lol
i did the other day. just waiting for an email or a call or something.
bet - i'm 99% sure you'll get hired too lol it's easy money too $12.25 too start off - after 3 months $13.50



i sense an oregon zoo trip when i get home for break to meet the new lil giraffe and nora the polar bear
hi invite me 
hey you wanna go to the zoo this winter break?
hey ya, thanks!! :)



why is #justinbieber still a thing surely 7 year old girls should have moved onto the next talentless disney twat by now #sheffieldissuper
i think you seriously underestimate the # of middle aged women who are hardcore beliebers #creepy
my dad told me under estimate the middle aged lady at your peril!!! haha... also sorry to see the pbutting of your cat
thank you. he will be missed.



just listened to wanted man by cash 9 times in a row bc i forgot the song existed &amp; now i'm having mental breakdown # 1 of the semester yeet
you made it to october 26 without a mental breakdown....teach me your ways freshman
it's a method i like to call: "i have no emotion"
oh  screw that i've tried



you are not a man until you pee blood from your penis
can having a period every month substitute for this?
of course
sick



73 wins and no ring means nothing .r: no #dubnation slander especially if yo team didn't win 73 games last year
lemme have a 2 time mvp, 4 all stars, the only unanimous mvp ever, 2 of the 3 best players, the 3 best shooters, i hate people lol
all that , still lost the finals .
all past tense now lol



don't air out your dirty laundry, handle it in private. twitter is not the place . so many people are doing it now days thinking it's cute.
quit complaining before i pop off on twitter
 see you in clbutt?? do let leave me hangin.. again 
correction... don't



still waiting for brett eldredge to accept my thirst date
still waiting for you to visit me
oops lol
 cmon



thank you for wasting all that packaging and postage to send me an ipad box containing only an ad for your product....but why?
we're always testing creative ways to reach out to people, sorry the offer didnt resonate with you. thanks for your feedback!
sure. thing is, i'm not an app developer. i run mobile strategy for a dsp, so i guess i'm just curious how i got on your list.
our solution is meant for mobile strategists to help drive engagement within their apps. you can dm us to learn more.



i'm going to get crucified for this, but it needs to be said:dogs are overrated.
we're over
\_()_/
all three of my dogs and i are on our way to fight



lmfao i stayed up knowing i have to open tomorrow, for this
smh
who u tellin
go to bed!!



thank you so much for everything 
idk what i did but you're welcome lol
today thank u for being u
i'll always be me love  i'll annoy you one day lol



i just watched the gilmore girls trailer and i am sobbing
legitimately got emotional i couldn't look at the screen the whole time lol
omg i had goosebumps and just so many tears especially the funeral scene!
can't wait  kinda mad i know were gonna finish it in a day tho 



i can't stay long. i didn't have internet all day yesterday. walking dead. i felt like i needed a grief counselor afterwards.
yes. shook me up. dreamed about it so got up at 3 am,couldn't sleep. why no internet? cable?
something wrong somewhere...
well ur back on. modem quit last nite,problems this am-changes on device mgr i didn't do



off to work at midnight! if you hear a tiny scream at some point tonight, don't worry, it's just my body clock's death rattle. 
no sympathy.  have kids...
at least they pretty reliably screw your sleep cycle! one random solo opposite, nocturnal schedule shoot day screws me for days 
just do the coffee and benedryl trick.... then you'll never get the circadian rhythm back to normal... ;-)



lmfaoooo y'all still tying ciara to future? weird.
every time it's annoying
lmfaoooo idk why? she's married. and he's living his life. she's in the same situation as a lot of women but she's famous. 
cause they a son together. but everytime her and russell do something they gotta bring his name up 



can't decide if it was the 178 new emails or my personal trainer that was the toughest challenge on returning from #vacation. #backtowork
welcome back!!! missed ya :)
i think more than 10 days has gone by since i sent you any panicked emails. what?! 
and i missed it!! been dealing with a different kind of panicky state - press the button and i'm hopping!!



so upsetting
sooo let's get a win thursday ??????
when they learn, that a hockey game is 60min long...maybe yes..
ok yes so true !!!!



why am i crying 45 seconds into watching a random episode of the voice for the first time?
this almost happened to me last night!! must be some weird phenomena.
it automatically came on after shark tank and now i'm emotionally drained!
my demise came from refusing to change the channel after #jeopardy



i need somebody to go to six flags with
bye
you gon be boo'd up 
no i'm not  i wanna go to fright fest!



does anyone else need the word "hug" typed in between a pair of asterisks? apparently i am giving those out this morning. just let me know.
sure i will gladly accept a "hug".
*hug*
why thank you 



that first loss a fluke
kd fluke
how?
cause he a dude butt nigga. blow a 3-1 lead to them niggas. then join they team. he had a squad. should a went to the finals.



what the hell am i supposed to be for halloween?
me? live a day in the life of sara weaver i'll loan you my northface uggs and daddy's starbucks card
the you-est you thing i've ever heard!
then when i go as a starbucks frapp we will match 



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
trust yourself and believe you will become great with your team



all have a theology, what we think to be true of gosh, &amp; a creed (written or unwritten), what we say to be true of gosh. what informs it?
excellent question. what do you believe the answer to be?
sola scriptura.
are you sure?  



no offends i'm ready for it to rain again for at least 3 days
why
it's calming
i love that answer



my mom left ! time to get naked and make grilled cheese.
it's safe to say i have grown up from this lads
dude. like the first thing i did when my roommates moved out was stop wearing pants all the dang time.
lmfao clbuttic ted



me: *finds any excuse to get someone to eat din tai fung with me*me: you're a human! let's eat pork dumplings!!!
um...i believe you have my number...
lissa lets go be not kosher!!
the treyf-est



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
dang, i started crying when randall was making a shake in the first minutes. went downhill from there. 
i'd say next week would be different but i already cried at the trailer. "i don't want to be different" #thisisus
i am hoping what i think i saw for next week is wrong. i love william. can't even think about it.



yall just gotta let the game speak for itself
best tweet i've seen all night
real easy to talk comes down to who's actually about it
it's true



yk you're an adult when you want a slow cooker for christmas
slow cookers are an adults best friend. i'd be lost without mine
i can't wait 
they're so amazing in the winter too bc everything smells nice and the food is warm 



i can't believe the legit trash that snapchat is allowed to post. if my kids had snapchat i would not want them able to see this garbage.
you talking the sponsored snap stories?
yussss
yeah seems very desperate:/



haven't we just come to accept tyrod being a game manager? knowing he doesn't really have any of his weapons
is it really fair to cast judgement on some of these pbuttes that he's making at this point because he doesn't have
many options
you just want to see him make plays with what he has. but he hasn't. it's troubling



thank you to everyone who is concerned, but i am watching ever pitch so i don't need your constant texts, snaps, and updates. #gocubsgo
i'm sorry i didn't snap you. i'm still concerned for you, just simply forgot. #flythel
in every way possible
well obivi



also need to find some peeps who play cod. been saying that as well lol. miss having a 6man team. #cod4
i miss having a four man snd group, does anyone still play cod? has it been put to rest. held x to pay respects? #cod4revivial
80% of ppl i've played with vanished. some reason finding ppl to play with is harder then i thought.i underestimated the quest
but then again cod is slowly dying out and other games are sliding in. devs think we need crazy crap to be content. #wrong



just finished the last episode of that 70s show! now what am i going to do with my life??
i finished it last week and honestly i still don't know what to do with myself
like there isn't anything else to watch on netflix
no you pretty much just need to start over



hungry af 
lol bruce tell u about that buttwhooping i gave him
nope how bad
nigga choked lmao let me get a onside kick  and after i missed the extra point for the tie



you been mad disobedient ma
stop live tweeting now liz
aight son chill
u being mad disobedient you 14 year old get to bed



y'all corny
corn is far superior to wheat as a crop
o
wheaty butt



for everyone that doubted me, just know i'm doing perfectly fine. gosh has blessed me with more than i deserve!!
proud of you beba 
i love you
i love you tons muah! 



our heat is fixed ybutts! our apt was for real colder inside than it was outside  &amp; im not even the big baby, it's wade and sherb 
girl you probably felt at home with that cold apartment, it's like being at your dad's 
lmfaoooo  i'm seriously dead. my dad was like it's still 55 in my house  specially him being @ grans 24/7.
he might as well sell his entire furnace honestly. make a couple bucks and buy some coca cola.



hot take prediction: bayh is gonna lose.
why do you think that?
i think he's flawed and easily open to these lobbyist washington crony attacks (because, well, he kind of is). &amp; i'm a pessimist
you're not wrong



any ios #developer looking for a #job in bangalore at a disruptive healthcare #tech #startup with excellent programming skills? #iosdev
is remote an option?
the work demands high collaboration with designers, so  the developer needs to be on sight.
oh ok thanks



good (dark &amp; early) morning it's a seat heaters all the way up kind of a day! #cold
good morning to you too! heated seats are the !
i'd be lost (or frozen) without them.
me too... gets me thawed out on the way to work. 



38 degrees? is this real life?
thank gaaaaaaaaaawd for automatic start...
i installed that in my durango when i lived up the mountains:)
i made sure...my car had it...even my truck...lived too long warming cars up...at my age..i had to  say no mas!



almost off....i'm tired too
*waves*
hey boo heeeyyyyy 
have a good sleep. 



win every single video game 
bc he's a nerd 
he has me playing battleship through imessage right now 
at least he plays w you! anthony wouldn't play me in pool 



had me loud asf laughing " unh unh don't do that " 
lol girl you play too much i was serious 
my gma was like what's wrong w. you 
lol you jus too dang silly 



if i could hit puberty at some point that'd be gr8
honestly, same.
dude you're like 7 feet tall how much more puberty could you undergo
the acne never stops.



take the loss, teach your kid better next time, and get the  screw out of my face
did you tell her that
yeah. i'm unemployed again
ayyee  i knew it



bored... sleepy... can't sleep...
it's way past ya bedtime
i'm grown nephew
 stop calling me nephew



moving is so stressful 
where to ?
fontana!
you're going to be so much closer to me 



i gotta be at footlocker early af 
y'all got some black n white air force ones with the tan bottoms mid top
idk i'll look when i get there
what one you work at



im callin in dead for work.
still makes me laugh
this was me today. again. 
i feel that on an emotional level... 



gotta drive my butt all the way put to schaumburg this morning 
noap
for a 4 hour meeting....bih...
i pray your skrenf in the lawd



just spent my morning giving podcasts 5 star reviews.
like share and subscribe, tell a friend, use the promo code: "hamburger" at checkout
oh, you listen to breakfast with a bovine too??
beef and dairy report actually



always feels
 i've shattered my phone like 27 times everybody knows me at chico iphone repair..... they should start a stamp card for me
at this point they really should! i don't know how you deal with it :/
it's so annoying that's why i was getting mine fixed all the time  especially when it cracked the camera too..



im about to loose the smalllllllllllll little bit of patience i have left in me if this website does not let me schedule my dang clbuttes
dont use wifi go to a computer lab or something
just walked down to my computer lab &amp; still wont work omfg
oh well idk mine worked fine it only took me like 3 trys



the days just keep getting harder &amp; it needs to be the other way around
hurts me to see you this sad, there will be better days to come 
it may pbutt like a kidney stone, but it will pbutt
thank you amber i love you so much



if that nigga ain't doing you right ,  screw him . somebody gone do you better  just be patient 
i love you kb 
i love you more 
dm me your number



i'll pay someone to run me over with my car.
30 dollars and a coconut water and you got a deal
i'll get you the huge coconut water
that's  screwing romance fam, forget the 30 bucks



just finished stranger things in less than 48 hours... well, crap.
lol dang you ran through that show

lol i'm never going to watch that show so i can't share your dismay



my friends in texas seems there's a problem with the machines. check your vote make them fix it before you send it off. machines by soros
i'm in texas i haven't voted yet
i've been hearing on the news all day. after you vote it switches to hillary so please double check before you hit that button
yes that's why i haven't voted yet



i have a question for wiley sos
just finished it! here to save your night 
how the heck do you draw the reaction arrows and the curved arrows for 10-12
how or where?



#stillrecsquad
good looking brody... no mook crap but i miss you #original lilbro
facts miss you too bro, give alfred work, they're talking crazy lol
facts...i'm gonna stay quiet tho



why did you fall sleep
what??? im still up bff wym 
esque you took long 
oh fr... whoops 



i definitely don't like coconut water
it's the best 
:( it's sucks but i'll still drink it cause it's healthy
lol not everyone likes cause there's really no flavor



working these next 8 hours without headphones are gonna be brutal
do you still work at safeway??
yes
are you doing night crew?!



btw i did make a cruise playlist this year!!!  once i go over it i will find out who wants it so you can relive #nkotbcruise2016
thanks megs!! as i heard a song yesterday on bourbon, i may have busted out in dance like i was still on lido. 
im totally chair dancing at the moment
lol! and this is just one reason i love you!  



fourth, qpf amount. think 1-2" covers it. could see a few higher amounts midcoast w/secondary low. slightly lower amts possible n mountains.
that should put a nail in the drought for many locations. precip still below normal but not drought level i'd think.
sadly not. we'd need the next 2-3 months to replenish all the water. 3yr deficits 12"+. a step in the right direction though!
3 year deficit? not in my part of maine. i'm not aware of any part of maine in a 3 year drought. it's well less than a year here



very sad one of my childhood teen idols has pbutted, r.i.p bobby vee , you took care of this baby, love janis xxx
so sorry for your loss janis. i never heard of him but i am sure he was wonderful if you loved him. xox
hi marge, you must have heard his songs, look him up on youtube you will be surprised! love janis xxx
i will look him up janis. i am always into finding new music. i will let you know what i think. thanks for sharing. xox



it's 4:50 in the morning and i'm soo unbelievably irritated with myself bc i drank an energy drink at 9 for no dang reason
what were you thinking lol
i was trying to hang out and actually be social when everyone got home from closing ;p
well i mean, you can't be mad because those were some good intentions lol



dua lipa 
ahhhhhhhh she's amazing! &amp; her songs are pure magic
ikr!!! 
listen to transviolet too they have this minimalistic vibeee



and trippy
triiiiippppyyyy
aciiiiiid vibesssss
i feeeeeeeel iiiiiiiiittt



i hope the cubs lose
quit hating, just accept that the cardinals suck 
they just had a rough year  they don't suck
uh huh 



love joel armia.  he gives his all. #nhljets
is he finally there? wjhc stud! took some time.
looks like they are grooming him as pk. he's got more offense than half the forwards.
pk? that's garbage. top 9 f easy.



im already regretting my bandwagon choice.
we were supposed to choose a bandwagon?
im a cubs fan for the next two weeks
oh i'm skipping ws this year.



so today something cool happened
did you quit???
why should it be cool haha
dont know, thats what im asking



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
im sure that was his last thought, mol.



i don't get people who brush their teeth before breakfast
a family i babysit for makes their kids do that so they're respectful and don't have bad breath in front of guests.
disrespect?? who has guests that early idc if i ate butt the night before i will not have my breakfast taste like death
i dont do it either but i just wanted to let you know thats why some people do it



who wants to do the umg 4v4 snd "no heatwave" today at 7pm est?
u paying i'm down
i dont creddy people.
u should creddy me tho



i liked instagram much better before every new follower was a business account or "entrepreneur".
i liked it for three days until i realized they steal the rights to your photos like facebook.
and post them here instead. why link to another site owned by facebook to show my pics?
and retain the rights.



now if y'all find out this baby really future's, somebody @ me. then y'all can burn the dang tl down
baby?! what baby?
ciara caught the preggnits from russ lol
chile...i saw that one coming.



good morning everyone. to my true cub fans, today's a new day to even the series. #flythew #letsdothis #worldseries
last time cubs got shut out 6-0 in the playoffs the next game they score 10 runs
precisely. how quickly fickle bandwagons and oblivious indians fans scan over this tidbit.
got so tired of people last night talking how this team is done like come on it was one game last was frustrating but come on now



finally my ex works in a pharmacy,so whenever i want to spoil her mood i just go there n buy condoms for no reason,somtyms i go 3 tyms a day
if it was a guy...at least every 3 days i will go buy the emergency pill
??
lost??



everyone at the bar thinks i'm hispanic
but i'm actually just irish and hungarian 
really? you look asian to me
 i think i just look white



im just sitting in the winco parking lot in my car because thats what you do at 12:15 when youre feeling directionless.
awh buddy. this just made me sad. go get you some zebra cakes.
i have ben and jerrys in my bags.
good man.



buy me lots of undies, art supplies and makeup and i will be at your beckon call 
....beckon
is there something wrong with what i said lol
it's "beck &amp; call," 



#hereiamwithher. voted for our #hillary yesterday. shimmy, tears, for my grandmothers.
well, expect a lot more tears after we end up in more endless wars.
did my part in halliburton's war. still, #hereiamwithher. says a lot : my support is not just about her gender.
i didn't like that war either....she's a george bush in a pantsuit.



wait whos coming to w me on friday for my bday dinner ):
what time again?
8:30 :d
lit, i'll be there like 15 mins late cause thats the time i get off, but i'll be there so save me a seat.. all of garden right?



smoking hot white model in fake glbuttes. "she's average! look at her glbuttes! who couldn't relate to her"-secret deodorant. #closethewagegap
that's foolish. glbuttes make every girl 15% hotter
funny. it makes guys 75% hotter.
crap. i gotta stare at the sun. daddy's gone turn 2 a dam 7



i put a lot of thought into my latest instagram caption not gonna lie
i dig it
i dig u
waking up to this was probably the best start to the day 



is it insomnia when you're woken at 4am by still more unpleasant dreaming, then can't get back to sleep?
also had similar waking time. segue to a remedy but dunno what yet, only begin.was 38 overnight, toofirst sign of 30s...
sorry to hear you were up too. i think we both need to get some grilled cheese ingredients in the house soon. #johndeeparty
last night(or was it the night before?)i felt like a mouse.partner left 1sliver of jalapeo jack which i gobbled b4 midnight



pavy got a hit with until the morning. crap knocks like a mf
appreciate it my g
also. drift... i ain't got enough superlatives for that jawn. crap slaps. period.
glad you enjoying the record man that brings me joy



good morning maddy
good morning kate 
i love you have a good day today. it's hump day!
i love you too! and you have a great hump day as well 



work is way too easy today lmao
where you work?
walmart
cashier or?



i think this dude is drunk sending me kissy emojis l o l

estas pedo?
let me find out



popping bottles type of week 


see you friday perra






oak brook has them !
where's that?
oak brook mall lol



say hi :) i'm a really friendly person :)
good :) how are you?
i'm great, do you still play ttr? i used play it but i got bored, maybe i'll play it again one day when i get nostalgic enough.
it's getting boring



is sword art online 2 worth watching
meh. sao 1 was better. it's a lot more real world than virtual for kirito. not a huge fan.
lame. i'm more into the virtual world part of sao.
yeah me too. sao 2 is based in ggo (gun gale). when he's in that it's dope but there wayyy more real world than i'd liked.



joe scarborough looking for every single shred of evidence to support the idea that trump isn't going to get railroaded in 2 weeks.
this has been one of the most annoyingly frustrating things to watch the past few weeks.
i get it, it's a show and he needs to maintain his persona, but get real dude. his path to 270 is harder than a rubik's cube.
i like joe, most of the time, i like the show a lot, i get frustrated with both him and mika at times, but they do a good job



my last draw meet w/kids: this 15 year old girl looked through my iphone texts right in front of my friend....like bruh u dont do that....
what the... that's so rude and creepy???
it was so......creepy and the whole time she was trying to get my attention but in a very wrong way
:-( hopefully w age restriction it'll be less creepy?? like wowowow that was so invasive and over the line



where was #rudygiuliani the past few years....under a stone? he doesnt know anything, what he knows is what #donaldtrump told him
nohe knows what anyone can see. is she so specialyou would have been locked up for just one of her wrongdoings #truthmatrs
maybe in russia, turkey, north korea and others. where i come from, #donaldtrump could never run for anything the way he is
who are we talking aboutchris cuomo w/rjuliano or trump because i can talk to you about either #truthmatrs



let's hear about how the warriors game was rigged tonight!
dude, seriously, leave her alone.
i would if i stopped getting promoted tweets for her tv show. doubt she's losing any sleep over my tweets.
as a  run tmc era warriors fan, i'm sick to death of cleveland, so, we're even 



its brick outside
i've never heard anyone use brick like that 
dont judge me linda 
i'm not lmao but is that supposed to mean cold? 



i wanna dm #oomf to talk about something, but i'm scared.
shoot your shot
, lol nahhhh don't wanna come off weird. have you talked to neicha?
lol you won't! &amp; not recently i meant to hit her up to check on her.. everything cool?



if i ever get married and someone decides to propose to their significant other during said wedding, ooooooh, hold me back.
i don't get it
if someone gets proposed to during my wedding
u would be mad ? lol



watching gowdy , jordan, chaffetz &amp; others spank that a**, truth wise
the last rivets in a sinking ship trying to hold this thing together
i don't think you should talk to a guy with the username francis marion about sinking ships :)
i may miss the jk, if that's how it was meant,infer he was in a ship wreck?if meant n a crbutt way,what shld i b thnkn about



thanks for following, hope you're well?
u r so very kind. i've been hanging on since my last brain resection in 2010. but seeing some light beginning to shine! how r u?
we're great thank you. have a good day :)
great is awesome to hear my friend!!!! remain blessed!!!! 



don't sleep on me.
i'm sleep
last time you did it cost you the tournament. goodnight christopher.
dang man. my career



y'all ever heard of the movie teeth?
yes! i watched that a few months ago. 
dude that crap is wild
inspect that crap first 



i'm on a pretty good streak of actually watching movies now - 3 nights in a row. no country for old men, steve jobs, &amp; there will be blood.
now someone give me a recommendation for a newer movie to watch tomorrow night, gotta keep the pattern going. old new old new.
watch all the other coen brother's movies you haven't seen.
still haven't seen hail, caesar. i've seen most of the rest but have a few old ones left



just saw a facebook interaction where a guy from brooklyn got actually g checked for never owning timberlands or a yankees fitted
2016 is the best/worst year ever
i never owned timbs cause i've always been poor but i definitely owned lugz
new cbuttel.



i use to be on 54th and gaskill with them killas
from 74th and mac
i use to be on 64th but up the street on that 1 way lol
most wild crap i ever seen happened on 55th and international



i might eventually app an oc soon. i think i finally found a good faceclaim for her.
eye emojis. where
in citta. she's a smol cutie pls take care of her
um. freddy can't take of her but kyra will when i bring her



i can't wait til she tells me something about her dog so i can say "oh your cat" same thing
i cannot stop laughing reading these tweets lol
like i shouldn't be mad but i am... i said husband on phone like 5x... obviously i can't be on my bf loan. i'm not retarded
she's probably like "oh this is one of those girls that just calls her bf husband for fun" 



welp cs?
let's play cs brother
just got into bed lol
 screw sleep :) let's goooooooo



8:38 am over here and it's my day! can i please  get a day tweet? love from belgium 
happy birthday rose hope you have a fun day.
thanks! plan to lunch with best friend and have lots of girly talks 
sounds like fun.



that doesn't mean i'm ignoring the fact the duplicate rate was way too high.there needs to be an element of dupe prevention for ev sales.
i love the festival. it's the pay+rng that sucks! at least the dupes give silver...
silver dust for dupes isn't good enough imo, if someone spends 40 bucks, they should get the whole collection of cosmetic items.
i absolutely agree. but i guess that's all we get for a silver lining. 



so all of a sudden it's  screwing winter today?? okay. fine.
girl it's cold but not winter cold.
it was a stupid wind storm when i left my cozy 75 degree home, winter enough for me!!
hahaha. you going to uzi next week?



joey bada$$ - devastated just heard it. new favorite song.
no1 cares
basic
ur basic for tweeting me the same thing u just texted me 



"redesigning the program" shouldn't affect the people already in the program this drastically. it's sad and upsetting.
you ok?
school is rough at the moment 
here if you need it!



i'm really a real butt chick 
you alright lol
lol i ain't fake . and ain't no idiot in me lol
you not , i fwy baby 



idk if i should take a double shot or a nap to power through tonight
i took a double shot and a nap and still haven't done anything
u r my spirit animal
hahahaha i'm so flattered. 



if i smoke with you and you take my lighter i lose all my respect for you
took my last  screwing lighter too 
you took your own lighter?
don abdy jr.



14 days and our president will be
i thought you were wasted man lol
not tonight im tryimg to save energy til halloween
what you on dude? dm me if necessary



a dope butt drive in movie would be legit 
why are you awake 
because i am on a 24hr staff duty detail lol so im awake alll night and day 
that's awful. and i thought night shift was bad 



anybody wanna snapcash me money for some kanye merch? thanks
i bought lots of it in oakland &amp; 2 items today.
frame a shirt. memorabilia!
good idea. not sure which one.



tomato sauce makes spaghetti taste really good.
no greater fact based truth has ever been revealed on twitter.



do not buy into the conventions about mpb - it is just a bromide for those who are incapable of pulling it off.



"what are you going as for halloween?""a sexy blt"
what does that even mean?
bacon. lettuce. tomato.
much sbutt  i was just confused on the sexy part



why does my phone always act up whenever apple drops a new phone 
because that's how they get you to buy the latest.. lol i fell into the trap and got the 7. pretty awesome though 
haha yeah i know, mine is supposed to be here . got the iphone forever thing haha
i swear it took forever for mine to come in. i wanted the jet black but that wouldn't come in till almost  #nope 



hi fellow white people, newt's hateful behavior last night doesn't make megyn kelly less racist. lavishing her with praise is disrespectful.
if trump didn't insult her last year, do you think she'd really be anti-trump? i honestly question her motivation
it just doesn't sync up with her typical opinions and behavior as a person
no, she's definitely a garbage racist.



it's crazy how modern presidents have this kind of celebrity status among society now
they are now literally like puppets of the country, just for show
idk i don't see them as "puppets for show", but they do have that sense of publicity you know? the famous kind of publicity
yeah



my work calendar got cleared for the whole week b/c of an ask from senior management to design a presentation slideshow for our shareholders
oh my gosh ... i wish my schedule could be cleared
ehhh, this presentation is so critical and they need so much detail crammed into it, it suuuuucks
oh... i shall rejoice then



dude i'm so done with myself!  today i kept saying omg i got a muscle spasm when really it was a cramp 
extraness 
foreals dude  i'm  screwing stupid
lmao it's ok girl i be extra like that for no reason specially when something hurts 



i'm cold but can't cover myself because my cat is asleep on my blanket :(
move they cat...they'll be fine..
but he looks so peaceful :)
it'll take him 10 seconds to get comfy again..he's a cat



i've had four bowls of cheerios this morning ama
uncomfortably full? can you feel your cholesterol dropping?
no and no, sadly.
darn! i will record these notes for research



at 2:30am something accidentally woke me up and i started gettting ready for work. didn't realise the time until after i'd showered! whoops!
do you run a fruit &amp; vegetable stand in paris?
no?
it's a scene in amelie. she sets his alarm to 3am.



im in vegas
blackjack tonight??
yes! i'm at ballys
i'm coming bby



lady's, there is nothing wrong with acting like a woman, liking girly things, and having woman like mannerisms.
i'm sorry, but there are so many things wrong with this tweet.
spelling wise or me talking?
both.



tell me why i thought u were henry
what how lol
but you're ray?
yeah lol



i was in the fittig room and tyra banks told me i look goooood
you made it
she has a fatty
i'm lowkey not even surprised



how can you be 25 and not know how to boil water...
how can you be above the age of ten and have consumed either kraft mac n cheese or top ramen and not know how to do this??
mommy is always there for you i guess
sml... my little brother get on me when i tell them to make food. since i'm the oldest i'm the sub. he can still boil water though.



someone want to write this essay for me  any of you rad dope feminists??
down
are you really though??
i'm in women and gender studies



practicing goat tying my foot rn &amp; i've rope burned it.. bad..
you're doing goats? lol
ybutts!!! i trained jd for it &amp; richard just taught me how to tie so all i need is a goat.. can i use cisco lol?
ha! you have lost your mind! hell to the nah can you use my baby cisco!  #dude



car door handle lol random thoughts.

on the chally?
lol nah on the good ol coachella camry hahaha



i hateeeee when i go somewhere in my work clothes and someone yells "where are my wings?!" geezus. stop. 
hooters? 
lolol bdubs
my bad 



car: *almost hits me*me: what the  screw?! hit me next time idiot!!!!!
getting hit by a car would actually be so cool tho. id be in the hospital have an excuse to miss school. plus i might die! (:
or, sue the driver for damages and have them pay off your student loans
crap that too!!!



and nick lol
we'll be waiting for you to come back 
i'm counting the days jos!!!!! we will have to have a crazy party when i get back 
you already know



hahahahahahah i have to get up at 6:30
yikes, get to bed!
youre not in charge of meeeeeeee
its a mere suggestion! :o



i saw my ex boyfriend liked some idiot photo on ig and i am hurt...haven't talked to him since two fridays ago 
smh what happened now
lmao bish we been broke up for almost 2 weeks now
'broke up' '2 weeks' why lie



has had my back and stayed true since middle school. i appreciate you boo. you are rare
aw babe i love you 
love you! see you soon?
see you saturday 



u weak af if u let twitter ruin your relationship
y u preaching this late
i'm in dr in the lobby waiting on my room so i'm talking crap lol
oh nah keep doing your thing young gunner !! 



&amp; i meant 2 u
its very true, thanks for all you did. i will miss seeing you there next year. come to the tweet up in a disguise?
we you recognize me in elvis outfit?!
well, yes haha. there is time to find a new disguise, although elvis would awesome



the fact we let this nigga slide with 30 lates is absolutely beyond me either
i was late every single day for 6 years. lol.
lmao are you serious omg did they never write you up?
like once, but i was their best employee. they never actually did anything 



... this should be a disaster
rudy that cleaned up nyc is the lane he need to stay in
i used to like him. he's gone nuts this cycle.
back in the day i thought he was a sdude in for the white house



hey howie...how bout you send a mid rounder to chicago for jeffries...and send ertz to the niners for smith. solves 3 problems#eaglestalk
no i still like ertz
i'm over him. so many tes out there that strike fear into opposing defenses...he's in year 4 and nowhere close to doing that
to me ertz doesn't get targeted enough to make an impact.. now he's in chipping and blocking and you see less



can't wait for the party &amp; jeremih show
i tried buyin tix for me n the homie but they sold out im mad now the prices are inflated as a mug :(
the prices they're going for now are how much the meet &amp; greets were 
im dumb for procrastinating like i knew my dumb butt wanted to go i shouldve bought them as soon as it was announced



35f outside. yuck.
we're going to hit 100 tomorrow
we're booking a flight, now.
bring sunglbuttes and flip flops



insurance increased yearly prior 2 #obamacare existing. quit lying2voters
insurance rates go up because people don't know what the er is for
that's a factor, keep in mind, local dr's office rejects none insured
but i'm not talking about uninsured going to er though



please keep my dad in your prayers. 3rd time called down to the hospital this month, hoping this is the time the transplant finally happens.
surgery is on! please continue the prayers, now comes the long part! gosh is good.
i'm at the hospital. dad's surgery started around 2-3 am. please keep those prayers up for a tough 8-10 hour transplant. gosh is good.
praying so hard man! im happy for your family that he's finally getting the surgery he needs.



why the hell did i take calculus
aren't you excited for our test tomorrow 
i'm so screwed 
so stressed 



you can get away with whatever you want in life. you just have to be beautiful.
consensus is women disappear to society around forty and i only got 14 years to go
yeah it's terrifying. i feel like if i don't have a family i'll probably kill myself before 50.
i can't wait to rock my 40s though, single or not. i want to be that 40 year old with too much confidence and too high of heels



i can never find someone to study w me
hmm
you "only study by yourself"
i just don't like people talking to me and distracting me when i'm trying to study 



chilis 3 for me...$10
chilis what where?!
nation wide
are you coming back?



haha i just remembered that i served a plate of pasta that had a screw driver in it ????? that was frikin random
"um excuse me miss, there happens to be a screwdriver in my noodles and i'm not too happy about it"
yeah it went a lil something like that... except she was cool with it, ate the screw driver then choked and died
u murdered someone with pasta. i'm calling the authorities.



november is gonna be lit! traveling every weekend... arky game, medical school interviews in al and iowa, lsu game, fsu game. i'm excited! 
i lived in iowa for awhile when i was younger.... iowa city is decent, cold as crap in the winter... super freakin cold.
i've never iowa. never visited, never traveled through, nothing. the school i'm interviewing at is in des moines.
it would be a big adjustment for sure. i'm a florida baby. i would need like a life clbutt on snow, ice, frozen pipes, driving...



finally coming to terms with reality: i am not going to vegas for #phish 
me either.  but i'm doing the 2 night st. louis umphreys halloween instead. 



is doing 2 nights! i'd be there if i lived closer



says you're a pretty cool guy. just droppin' in to say hi.
yoyo! shoutsout to adam then
cool, will do. pringle, i was just curious if i'd be ok to like chat n' stuff i got my mind all racing about stuff
yeaa sure, i dont mind, is it anything important?



really debating on applying to the prison. the pay is so good, and i already got my connect to get me in. but is the risk worth it ?! 
im on the sameeeeee boat
such a risk... like is it worth it ?
i'm sayinggg  but that check is crazy too i'm here doing a pro &amp; cons list about it



i miss mommy 
i miss u too honey

dm or text me ur fan mail addy so i can send u and ur roomies a lil sumthn sumthn



snapchat talking about her crush made me smile so much that was way too cute 
hahaha i know i'm totally gonna regret this in the morning but that voice changer this is so fun lol and i can't sleep ugh 
it's so cute! talk to him! compliment him anything! hah
dude i literally freeze and look away and like just go the other way 



need my squad for 4 v 4 football
word
ill get mt own 4 and straight crap on yall
bruh we about to pick up brennan .



i've tried almost everything for my acne, &amp; i think proactiv did the job compared to the hundreds of dollars i spent on prescription creams
i didn't think anyone understood my struggle...
you should try proactive! it actually work for me. also oatmeal-bar soaps, like the mexican ones!
thank you!! i'm trying like this african bar right now!



anymore makes me a depressed child

i love you
i love you too erin!!



fall down seven times, stand up eight.
i love this. i'm not sure why... but this just hit me in the gut!!!
it's definitely an eye opener. you know what i mean?
i do i do! specially for us actors (:



this is about to be the greatest weekend of my life
no because you aren't seeing me
trueee but you need to come out here and have some fun 
i know i want to so bad! ashlee is going up in like 2 weeks but i don't think i'll be able to get work off



wish i was rich and didn't work, so i wouldn't have to make this drive every morning at 6:15
hell yea
crap sucks
hell yes lol



late night thought: want in n out.
imy
imu! come home 
not til thanksgiving! 



before. what do people like?
whys your grandfathered plan ending? we are good about letting you keep those
i dont know. i only noticed because i got an email that my 5 gb was almost used up. used to get 1024 gb per month.
oh yes the $3 isn't ending. the 1tb/mo was a temp promotion due to the ios9 bug. that has ended.



this guy on jaguars radio right now is going in on allen robinson, telvin smith, rashad greene, and gipson hahahaha
you talking about #twitterlessjeff?
who ever is on 92.5 right now. always listen to them but i don't know his name or the shows name
the drill



when you lose a war, you usually first blame the generals, not the foot soldiers.whose fault is trump? start with folks like priebus.
whos that
the slack-jawed yokel in charge of the rnc.
ohhh. yeah, if trump had got the nomination without any help from the rnc then i'd still be calling myself a republican now.



local government in 1 word only - so far i only have 'struggling' and 'heterogeneous'... any more? it's important #odisummit research :)
"constrained"
thanks rob, that's a good one! see you in seoul soon - or will you be in london for the summit too?
wish i could be at summit but i have data for good (canada's datakind) responsibilities next week... see you in seoul!



kids are greatest gift of all 

and the man is extra but even with it without your kids are there! motivators!! 
that part 



why is pas such a heavy sleeper !
"i wasn't even sleeping" nigga you was snoring vincent every time
that's pas too ! like you were just snoring nigga wym you weren't snoring? then who was ? casper ?
could have been kidnapped but you wouldn't know bc you was dead sleep 



your upgrades to a middle seat are not acceptable! seriously!
hi, karen. please direct message you ticket number. i will take a look.  *mr
the flight is full.
the response from the check in desk was to read the fine print! i find that also unacceptable!



woke up to sportscenter highlights of the warriors getting 30 pieced.... , what a good morning it is!!!!
nothing good bout that sir
spurs played great and kawhi is a monster!!! glad to see they came out ready to ball
always had been



do the barrage of cardstock vote blah on blah! mailers actually inform anyones vote? is there actually any math on that anywhere?
just prior to the big day. its hard to know how much is mailers vs tv vs friends vs overheard conversations at starbucks.
it just feels like money thatd be better spent elsewhere
like where? direct mail is one of the more affordable forms of offline advertising in terms of guaranteed impressions from the



miss jaelin det much .. hopefully i get to be w/ him this weekend since we're both off ...

what lol
salty 



in your departments, do graduate students perform any of the admin duties for invited speakers? schedule  travel, itinerary, meals, etc?
nope. we organize and invite for one student lecture but admin does all logistics.
right. this is how it should go i think. everyone is misunderstanding my question. obviously students also meet/greet w speakers.
i get you bro.



first "proper" game of star wars lcg last night, 2 core sets, 10 pods. wow. totally different game. i can see how ppl get hooked...
meanwhile i'm grinding out games getting my decks ready for worlds next week! it's a great game
good luck with that. can't see myself ever playing competitively, but fun to dig bit deeper under the surface
it's really a blast, though this will be my first experience at worlds. the community is really great



good morning i'm thinking deeply about the film the wrestler. may be time for a rewatch.
its cranking its way up to being the best arnofsky film, which is odd
the only things he's done since then are black swan and noah, which i've never seen because i typically don't do bible films
but i'd be lying if i didn't say i was at least pbuttingly curious at aronofsky doing a bible movie.



i'm stressing at the moment.... my student center isn't working... 
mine not my roommates is working. the struggle is real right now
this is annoying.. i guess this happens all the time.. obviously they need to change something
for real



so baby pull me closer
i'm the back seat of your bolder

the pioneers used to ride these babies for miles



. #weare12 
a little jet leg there! what a trip.
for sure. originally one stopover in nyc only which would've cut time but airline changed route. #gohawks
new orleans should be sunny and beautiful! wish i was going!



were off to see the vampire,the wonderful vampire of oz!because, because, because, because,because of the wonderful blood she draws!
absurdly pleased with myself for thinking of this on the way to the lab.
sang it the whole way home, too.
you're simply adorable 



i am the size of louie
big fat pig fat louie
why are u up
idk i woke up randomly weird



duct tape fur suit
r u a furry
yea i watched zootopia and now i cant stop having sex with frogs
you lick frog boots



hi shannon!  thank you for the follow!  have a great day!  :-)
i love kiln creations!  sorry i don't have suggestions for you on your inbox query going through same!
no problem.  i actually found what i think is going to work -fingers crossed.  let's catch up soon!
absolutely



hungry asf
go eat then
buy me something !
mcdonald's 



that's good to hear! what's your thoughts on the possibility that dem hillary clinton will be the first "woman" us president?
looks like it's hers to lose and how blue she can make congress
the dem's need to pick up four or five seats to be the majority party in the us senate on nov 8th? i'm very optimistic!
same here, i'm in jersey this week and watching the swing state ads, it's fierce.



my becky w/the bald hair stalker and his creeypy as fck lawyer: one down, 3 to go.
what's up?? you have a stalker??
a stalker? more than one. but thts par when yr a kenned-- sorry, a pettibon.
i hate to hear i have competition as a rayms obsessor. gonna stomp out anyone who thinks they're a better pettibon stalker.



really wanna start shameless but would also like to keep my sanity
doooo itttt...dooooo ittttt
i already know so much of what happens though id only watch it for ian and mickey lmao
same..i watched it only for them, however they dont really appear that much at first. but i fell in love w the plot&amp;other ppl



robins always hating!!!!!!!!
all i was going to say was he needs to hug his dad's neck bc we have been rolling our eyes since he came on the airwaves
you need to try and sneak that in next time. he really need to know how we feel!!
they said i was banned lol



no but seriously someone drive with me from la to vegas. we can split gas
ight pick me up from stl first though
yeah okay
just drive yourself



meeting with a prospective portfolio lender today then taking my homie to get some lunch... 

trying to get these origination fees tf outta here, beloved lol
"fees too dang high"



for those who don't know...luna is my dog. i woke my gramma up to sing happy birthday to my dog 
going dt this weekend?
yeah i texted you that i'm going friday
where r u gonna go?



how many award-winning dishes or tasting menus have cooked green pepper? probably zero.
like...bell pepper? or any?
green and cooked. tastes like the 80s.
but aside from shicrapo, jalapeo, and maybe serrano, yeah, i haven't seen many green peppers in contemporary cuisine.



got the badge and now my laptop fan can  screwing chill out
the stressssssssssss
my poor  screwen laptop. did u get it??
yhhhhhhh i got it woo!!!!



that plugin works fine on my personal acct. wtfffff
i think it's working now!
oh yea?  cool i'll check tmw. i changed that 0 to a 1
i lie. it was a post i set up. ugh. why can't we win???



my opinion on the hand with benger is that he angled you by making false accusations of breaking the rules to tilt you
definitely the dumbest thing i've read on twitter. maybe ever
you're calling me dumb and yet don't realize that griffin benger can't see kbuttouf's hole cards. you know, that's how poker works
if you read the second part of my comment i say how his attack on kbuttouf was designed for kbuttouf to make a play w/ marginal hand



someone call me
call the suicide hotline
i did they hung up
well kys



that "i just ran down two blocks and up three flights of stairs before 7 am" oh so fresh commuter feeling!
is that a good feeling?
well, it's ok as long as you made your train.
ah i see, good morning btw. hope your day turns out well 



what to do?
right there at jack theres some chicken strips and fries you think you can drop some off? can i pay u with trident gum
i'm shhleeep
lol hella dumb pick me up lets mob to sf



not confident about tonight. think chelsea might steamroll us.
we have an outside chance but it's tough. a lot depends on how seriously conte is taking the competition.least we're improving
they have no europe so i'd imagine it'll be a strong team from them. hopefully it's a good game!
it will get intense if we go beyond 90 mins. like leeds norwich. just so long as we don't see repeats of their weekend lol



why doesn't everyone live in minneapolis? i love this city so much.
i miss it so much. 
come back sometime. it's the best.
planning on it!



i'm a firm believer in "fake it 'til you make it." today, i'm faking a clean &amp; functioning adult w/ some make up &amp; mediocre hair styling.
showering is for squares; unscented baby wipes and tinted moisturizer are for heroes
ybuttsss queen!!! you are so on my wavelength.
always have been, always will be. punk rock middle schoolers for life



i actually punched a guy when the buckeyes lost on saturday so it was nice to see the indians win last night.
poor guy lol
was trashing talking. i warned him. 
lol thats only fair then



people be surprised when i say i'm going to commerce this weekend like i don't go every year. #itsatradition #honorarystudent 
c u there
yaaaaaas!!! ima have to text you girl.
ima dm you my number, text me



finally back in nyc. sleeping at my moms house tonight then back to gaming tomorrow.
 #2016
what?
u don't remember lol in orlando #2016



goodmorning twitter!
done competing?
yep 
hope to see you again friend. take care.



it's saying i can't register at this time yet i have no holds on my account...what howard???
check your credits, how many do you have?
29 yeah i just realized
same. we gotta wait til tomorrow bruh, i'm so upset lmfaoo.



i want  to be in love . make me feel like a woman
i'm trying 
you haven't  even hmu
yes i have 



i just checked your header.....if you ask me i'm ready.
you gonna let me make you an honest hushard?
something close to it for sure! i aint know you was that fine. i thought it was just a pretty face.
lol don't flatter me too much. i might start to believe you.



i applied at fedex ground and ups. 
smh ground is gonna be a idiot should've done freight with the big boys ;)
i tried that couldn't apply
why not fool



i love him.
i love you, cutie.
i know. 
you're so cute, what the  screw. wanna make out with you and touch you.



if i could go one day without not feeling like crap that will be the best day of my life
drink more fiji water!
is that a life changer?
kills all bacteria and sickness in your body 



i would like a quesadilla
i got a quesadilla. follow ur bliss
i want another quesadilla
this is the best thing i've ever seen on the internet!!!



if i don't think about it i won't be sad
+ you're too amazing to be sad
i love you
love u more bb stay smiling



dude from the y ?
ya
bald head butt lol 
hell nah , yo elephant pussy smelling butt



this morning i woke up to a text from the boy im all gitty about &amp; it was a picture of an ugly  baby "dear gosh look at this" hes the one.
same boy or different one
sammme!
when's the wedding



i have been up since 430 just tossing &amp; turning
this exam is going to kill me
that makes two of us! i just went through your snapchat thinking dang dedication!!
i seriously going to cry. i didn't know it was today til i went to my lab last night.



is it shady to go on dates just for the free food asking for a friend
nope. you're trading your time for food.
in that case my current relationship status is "emotionally detached and ready for burritos"
do you have it set as that? hahaha



you have experience with working not working?
no but i've heard of it and know ppl that use it
thinking bout submitting
couldn't hurt!



it's trying to rain on the one day i didn't bring a  screwin umbrella
well goodmorning sunshine
is it is it really
nopeno its not



i ate all my pringles too :( i have nothing to live for
what flavor were they
ramch
good snack choice



being in nursing school is so bad. if i get a stomachache, i immediately start thinking about ch. 25 "gastrointestinal disorders"
ill be reading up on esophageal diverticulum and in the end i just really need to fart. i hate nursing school.
that's me with my muscle aches which are constant i always think i  screwing have fibromyalgia  which i may have but it scares
me because i over think it but ever since i stared i diagnose myself with like cancer when it's just a little ache 



me: wow leslie jones said some transphobic crapsome random: yeah!! she's also a racist against white people!me: ... lol no
i blame trump for a lot of this tbh.
the few who've come into my mentions saying random, ignorant crap have been trump supporters lmao
i rest my case.



imagine being on a cruise ship full of celtic punk band because apparently that's a real thing
it's called the salty dog cruise and flogging molly and dropkick murphys have both played it
can anyone else name another celtic punk band because i for sure can't
yellow stitches man



you know what? f**k clients who don't pay on time. or at all. you do your best for them, and for nothing. have more to say, but will not.
ever been stiffed by someone worth $750,000,000? this guy has!!! lolthat crap is the worst and why i quit working in film.
ugh.
there needs to be an off the record podcast where pro creatives tell horror stories anonymously with their voices modulated!



i'm such a crafty/creative person, that when i don't do anything creative i feel sad. and i want to do so many things but can't decide
let's be like old ladies and start quilting
i know how to knit. lol. and i have a sewing machine so i'm down 
loll okie. 'tis quite satisfying



chandra drunk gets on my nerves man 
hm, don't be  screwing rude! 
u kept saying the same crap over and over 
i did a lot of crap i didn't know i did til i woke up today 



i'm going to get big..  screw all this skinny crap.. i need to store fat cause this cold ain't working for me
be careful
with what ? 
with life



something about blonde hair and blue eyes that just catches your attention.

the homeland
don't forget about the hidden hitler switch that stays lowkey until they get mad at you



these wikileaks emails are all like, pretty reasonable people working together to solve kinda complicated political problems boring
tbh the only real thing that's sticking with me are the "journalists" that were working in tandem with the campaign during primaries
i mean it doesn't look great for journalists, but buttering up a source has a place in the craft
as a retired journalist we/i routinely did much worse crap than pretending we cared about the schmucks we covered



i can already tell this weekend is gonna be one for the books and it only monday
what's going on this weekend?
there's like four or five different parties! i don't even know which one to go too
well crap hmu



just got my ticket for mardi gras round three this year and realized i'll be 21 so 
omg i want to come
yaabuttss, meet up with me! party 
when are you leaving?



lf jungler duo ~ around masters
hey
*ahem* masters
didnt wanna duo anyway w/e



i spent the last hour trying to convince my friend to name her new cat h r puffinstuff to no avail
you know hes in a new show called mutt n stuff? my 2yo is obsessed.
really? i might need to check that out
same guys that made the old show made this one. nod to that show. hes a special guest periodically.



soooo lssu has a former major junior player on their team that's leading their team in scoring... thats not legal#thingsthatmakeyouwonder
but if theres shenanigans there, ill take forfeits on the debacles this weekend.
he also went back to tier 3 juniors for some time too. coaches recruited him knowing he was semi-pro. violation?
i suggest that you refer this to your coaching staff.  tell lance that geof morris sent you.



you know what i'm very very suspicious of? women who exercise without tying their hair back
would you approve of my sweatband look?
yes, i think it's fine. i'm mostly talking about women with straight hair down to their butts!!!
i know what you mean...this is why i will not be returning to the cobble hill pure barre



looking forward the your call with tommy, man. i was in atl up until a few years ago; awesome town.
i've listened for the last couple of hours; thanks for the cool-headed discussion. hope to see you on future broadcasts.
thanks bro. i appreciate the text and acknowledgment.
my pleasure; i hope he takes your advice to heart. i really enjoy his insight, but you were making solid arguments.



recurring theme of speakers at #seu16. not crowdfunding, no iot. bootstrapped design, engineering and fabrication out of garages. proper
then local motors. oh well.
time for their software subs to be paid again?
... don't they use catia for vehicle design?



please tell me you two are connecting at #citylabmia!
missed each other this time. hopefully there will be another opportunity soon!
yes, you two will have much to discuss... when things normalize a bit, maybe we could schedule a short call!
sounds great!



who got more hits flock or shabazz
shabazz
moe get outta here
bruh personally i crank flock more but people i know ain't even listen to mafia ties and i love it



my niece wants a selfie/picture of her placing ballot in machine -- legal in vermont or will she go to the slammer? #btv #vtpoli
legal in vermont!
thanks! it is her first time voting.
exciting! :)



really can't sleep
* pbuttes you the blunt* hit this gbutts
need
i gotchu friday.



i just turned $5 into $105 in 6 rolls. great start to the work day.
what the hell did you have for breakfast. cee lo or craps
bowl of trip 4s
jesus. go get a 20 dollar scratcher on break. let it ride



. i'm all for anything that could get rid of the arrogant umpires
skunk drunk billy martin was a saint back in the day, cocaine 70's-80's,roids in the 90's, now bad upmires?
i just think they make it too much about themselves. a player even looks at them the wrong way they're ejected.
plus, one thing huge totally overlooked item by everyone, 1% of ump's speak spanish, is that a problem?
i'm sure it is a problem, but unless mlb requires them to learn there's not much to be done other than translators



and i understand fsu has worked w/the seminole nation and technically gotten "permission" but that doesn't mean all indigenous ppl approve
like at cmu the college and the local chippewa group work together to do research and to preserve the native culture
that doesn't mean sports teams mocking native americans isn't racist. are you just being dense or what?
hey i'm just trying to understand sorry. by no means am i defending the cleveland indians,  screw that noise, but i brought up
cmu because their mascot is the chippewa and the question has come to change the mascot and the tribe fought to keep it as such



ain't no one ever tryna smoke  i got 9 gs to blowwwww 
smoke
who u with
my cousin
where y'all at b



wishing your ex a happy birthday through letter instead of in text is so cute ..
?????
that's for replying back to me  and it's long story 
8:25 i'll try my hardest to be there
it's starts at 8:45  you better be there! if not imma drag you from your room 



really hungry rn i want in n out
if i would've seen this earlier i would've scooped you up to get in n out smfh
wow smh 
i was craving ino so much 
me too but its closed now so i have to live with it 



are you drunk rn ?
i'm just saying you could do better. why you simpin?
i'm not it's just a good song
tru stay up baby girl 
you too love 



everyone say a quick prayer that i don't cry during this practical :)
good luck!!! just breathe you totally know everything!! be confident!
omg wow you rock ant thank you 
for anatomy sonervous 
that's what mine is ily thank you good luck 



6/7 reisaru fics doneeeeee
yeeeeeey \o/
i am so...dying lol one more fic, plus i'll send you the dialogue for your edit before this weekend!
lol i feel you. i also have 6/7 edits/drawings made by now. this has been a wild ride :d
it has!! i'm happy there are no events anytime soon after this lol



your smile is the best even with that missing top lip
fam hahahaha
ya know me 
i love you lmao
love u to 



that record starting to grow on you yet?
yeaa it did, the beat so smooth. i feel like i could listen to the instrumental all night while smoking
we gon go on an l ride with that on repeat
most definitely
long live



stress on top of stress with this job. hoping to gosh i get it
what is this job #3?
at carmax. interview is thursday and i'm nervous as hell lol
just relax dude. if you get it then congrats. but if you don't, don't trip. everything happens for a reason.
so either way it will work out. don't over think it.



i kinda feel like playing bo3 but it gets boring playing solo
i'll play with you!
psn??
dang! xbox 1 
what's ur gt



i have to be ready to walk out the door in 5 minutes and i'm not even dressed. all because one one my eyelashes won't cooperate.
pesky eyelash! did you get it back in line?
yes! lol. it took me until i got to work, but it was worth it
phew, hehe. and you weren't late, right?
nope. right on time 



i'm in the best shape of my life right now and it's such a shame bc no one sees me naked ever :(((
i wanna see you naked baby 
you know you can hmu anytime pap ;)))
i miss you mucho!!! 
you don't even know honey  i need to see you soon!



so what is future for having hella kids by different women? lmao he aint a dude? but ciara is? ok
who said he wasn't?
hella men on the tl
lol well, it would be weird for a man to call another man a dude, but by definition, he is.
right lol gotta call it like it is haha



per local news again this morning, we apparently have to worry about all teens in the city. "teens" attacked a bus now. #smh
i honestly don't understand the fixation on race.
who mentioned race?
i was not careful enough to avoid it. my bad ; ).
the news seems to be the folks with the fixation - too afraid to mention it when it is relevant to the story and public safety.



i really miss you more, wanna hang out
i literally cannot leave my house until thursday because school is life
next week, we're hanging
you know i don't like to do anything.....
sucks bc we're going on an adventure



there are so many games coming out in the next three weeks and i'm annoyed. i have to plan which games i'm going to buy when. 
cod first of all
call of duty isn't even close to the top this year. 
fug you
why you still up?



oh and getter opened with thizz dance so that was cool
dang.. 
it was dope dude
i'm glad he dropped it though. man dude i wish sis could come around already so we can  screw crap up together 
yes pleasee!!!



seeing your mom cry motivates you like no other 
been thru it and i agree 100%
that's why stopping is not an option
of course bro! i'll never stop
likewise



hey melissa, who don't you actually tweet rather than retweet crap?
guat
ju her mii
idgi
i don't  screwing know anymore to be completely honest



why tf you up? you don't have work in the morning, lazy butt bum?
mind your business
you don't count, you're a creative mastermind
you're sweet
you are tho



instead of watching the spanish film i was buttigned to, i watched the help instead 
spanish &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; todas otras cosas
ugh i know  i was gonna watch the movie "todos se van" have you heard of it?
nope! netflix??
so you're sisters can come to pittsburgh but you can't?!? lame



comedians aren't politicians. they exist to hold a mirror up to society. #lookatyourselves
we are monsters and cringe, then run away screaming.
plato's cave theory strikes again.
i know not plato's theories. i prefer to discover humans one at a time.
humans are overrated.



i think your a idiot but that's okay cause i'm having fun
mmmmmm 



i didn't know it was the weekend already 






lo ' shy got that fiya &amp; dese dudes love me like satin yeaaa

 i loved lil wayne chill
man i'm edsu  it's satan. wow i knew you then... why didn't i tell you any better? 
lmfao chill mannnn dang



best feeling is being left on read and he texts you when he's off work
lol i can't tell if you're being sarcastic or not
oh i'm actually happy haha like i thought he was like byyyyeee but i forgot he has a job
okay just remember you are more beautiful than cinderella. you have a face like sunshine and you smell like pine needles.
miss you mips






i just got out here big homie
wyo
i'm in the islands 
dang i got pack sam can't smoke 




both had to overcome a lot of adversity and personal challenges just to keep this music grind alive, but they've come so far. . .
respect bro
watchin this crap is exciting lol
like you said it's just the beginning i got moves in the cut



go tf to sleep 
i'll sleep when i'm dead. 

i'm just saying young buck. lol  , but i just got off work lol
i know that's why you so excited twww look way you feba lls



ended the week with 63 hours 

always 
maybe try switching it up once in a while 
i will for my birthday 



open eyes. stretch. brush teeth. drink water. open laptop.wait, it's only 4:45a?!one o' dese days, brain, pow! right in the kisser!
niiiiiiikkkkkkkkkkkk
omg what are you doing up?
having a pity party for one 
:bearhug:



make me some food pls ....
girl it's 2 am and i'm trying to sleep 
but you're on twitter 
i know can't sleep duhh
well since you're up ....



tonight! and we managed to escape the darkness with 3 minutes to spare! 
i was there too! didn't escape though
yeah the rooms are tough! which one did you do?
psycho, i was in the westboro location you?
the darkness at queen st. would really recommend it if you're looking to go again!



happy birthday! hope all is well.
thank you! so good to hear from you! hope all is well with you too! :)
i've been all right. (can complain, do complain, shouldn't complain, you know.) have you had fun times on your bday?
i'll be celebrating later, but fun will be had eventually. :)
good! enjoy!



before, drake was cotton soft, now he's a bully bc he responded to bars that mention his name.
he's still cotton soft. he just got flow. idk how we let a toronto kid act so thug and get away with it 
 he's just giving out bars to the people who asked for them
he can do that without pretending he got heat and crap lol. sit down jimmy! 
i do the same thing, let chubbs have his hands dirty lol you see dreamchasers didn't do anything



i'm writing a book
about?
my life
i will definitely buy a copy if it comes with a free bookmark molded after your penis
good idea i'll incorporate it



don't fall asleep and forget to pick me up
why ask me to get you if someone else is....
i didn't ask ypu
yes u did but ok lol.
you probly offered and i said i'll let you know but ok lol



i wish everytime i opened the door to get out of my car, 11 beautiful white doves would come flying out in slow motion
and six days from tokyo drift plays in the back.
thats one of the best soundtracks ive ever heard, that would be perfect.
dang right... tokyo drift has the best opening in film history
lol fr, ive watched it at least half a dozen times for no reason.



my job hired this 30 year old lady and i thought she was aight but she swears she's got a gaydar
this girl customer walked in n my coworker goes "yup that girl likes girls"
i was like "how u kno" n she was like "i jus kno what ppl like" then i asked "what do i like" n she said "no comment don't wanna b rude"
she sounds gross lmao wtf, why do people think that's an appropriate work conversational topic?
its weird but to be fair i'm the supervisor n break every written rule there openly at the same time so i can't drag them



y'all weak butt niggas swear basketball gunna get you thru life but y'all can barely hoop

i'm so  screwing serious lmaooooo niggas out here really thinking they going d1 .. i can't 
 i can't with you rn morgan , you got me weak i already got a headache
i'm just speaking the truth on the tl  that's allllllllll



gift card upon completion of their survey! #legit 
how much?
25 dollas!
nice, was it one of the random popups in the app to get to it?
no this one came through email. i didn't get one on my other accounts so must be random selection?



stranger things on netflix had the lamest ending ever 
ayy you finally watched it omg
dude there was so much hype about it and the ending killed it, i expected way more
well there filming season2 already so it might answer the confusing questions at the end
hopefully!!



what happened to screen doors? i miss screen doors. a nice way to kind of have your door open for neighbors.
they are still big here!  a lot of old houses have nice wooden ones, which make a nice sound when they close!
i love those old wooden ones! here in ontario they're getting rare.
there's a place up the coast, near where we like to get away for the weekend, that makes them. quite expensive, but super nice!
you're in maine? it's very similar to my home province nova scotia. really love maine.



you can get away with whatever you want in life. you just have to be beautiful.
consensus is women disappear to society around forty and i only got 14 years to go
yeah it's terrifying. i feel like if i don't have a family i'll probably kill myself before 50.
i can't wait to rock my 40s though, single or not. i want to be that 40 year old with too much confidence and too high of heels
wait no, in my 50s that's when you can start being really gross and you can just blame it on being old. i like that.



why kawhi do iggy like dat???
remember when iggy and lee were all stars? lol
lmaooo kawhi wasnt even in the league then
ppl forget how good those dudes were man lol
crazy that was almost 10 years ago lol



lol can my call come plz 
are you going on a mission?!?
dude yah my papers are in 
yayayayay that's so exciting!
thanks dood 



i miss my family 
i miss u
you really don't :(
don't you ever 
still real life hurt by you



i haven't been to dave and busters yet  i need to go asap
let's go!!
you comin???
no doubt she's coming
i'll text u guys tomorrow bc we're making this happen



husband goes to the #worldseries tomorrow... #gotribe! #indiansvscubs #indians
lol, it sounds like he's on the team!
if he was on the team, why would he just be showing up to game number two?!
maybe cuz he sucks and they didn't need him for game 1 
rude.



it's fun to watch the bloggers race.
danggit, i missed a race? to where are they racing?
potato sack race down msusa!
aaaaaaah. i still havent been on frozen \_()_/
you'd totally fail as a blogger! get a fp for 7:55 on 11/18 and you can ride it with me!



what a wonderful endorsement from #nixon of watergate and misuse of doj reputation and his rather silly grandson
#watergate is nothing compared to #hillary &amp; the #clintonfoundation.
in what universe?



false witness is meaningless-get out of alternative universe



i want hot chocolate &amp; my bf
i can get you got chocolate but not your bf
why can't u get me my bf
idk where he is
ur right there



perez is having himself a day! #worldseries #clevelandalltheway
you just gotta go for cleveland 
i've been saying wdudever won the redsox indians game was going to win the world series
series***
i'm gonna call game 1 luck



confused, thought i get 2 free checked bags with explorer club card
the mileageplus explorer card allows for your first checked bag to fly free. ^ty
but i now have the club card...
we can check it out. please dm us your confirmation number. ^ty
will do



b, why are you on twitter! you should be studying! this is why i'm a good friend
i legit dont know how i always end up on twitter!!
sameee!
what time are we studying tom?
don't know yet i text you



'lose' a 127lb, 57 in long bright red crate?  it was shipped with 2 other identical crates that arrived.  fix this folks.
i am sorry this package has not been delivered. please e-mail our team the tracking info at help.com. ^tv
ya lost the package.
please provide the incident number when you e-mailed us so we can make sure we received the e-mail. ^tv
are killin' me.  #custserv lessons are needed.



yikes i completely forgot i have an economics test today...
looks like i ain't coming
haha 
if i come and he makes me take it i might cry
girl y wouldn't he make u



ua'21 or uab'21 
troyu21
you better be going dude.
i swear i'm going then we can transfer out together after the 1st or 2nd year
okay text me.






thank you my guy!!! let me hold sum! 
i'm tryna get some like you 
staying cheap on em like uncle craig 
yeah dat way 



love my job
it doesn't love you
yeah i'm working on halloween lol
same
you're gonna have loads of fun lol



im getting major problems with the wallet in macos sierra, any ideas?
send me screenshot for the error
its not a specific error it just very quickly stops responding
send ne screen shot about the error to fix it
theres nothing to see, just a frozen window



hope they did't  screw up minjun's hair this time
haha...!!!! it sounds pretty good tho.... hehee..!!!!
i hope!wanted to see his hair up again cuz it's the best hairstyle on him sobs
hehe..!!! i'm still waiting for galaxy's dvd... and they have the dome conc now, we'll be broke..!! 
forever broke ahhhhhhhh tt



looking for a water resistant #case not made by lifeproof. any recommendations? #smartphone #gs7
i'm sending back the pixel. i prefer the gs7 over it. i prefer plain android but gs7 looks and feels better
i really love my gs7! except for the glbutt back, as we've already discussed. :/ what was bad about pixel?
the screen doesn't look that good. at some point the edges look a bit blurry like the optics of glbutt are off.
bummer! sounds like the usual quality issues that nexus was known for. 









mmm...didn't get that detail, but i met up with rick steves like he was my best friend.



trying to figure out where rick steves came from. the cust service ladies were super nice, though...



i'm really trying my hardest not to eat rn but i'm starving
 screwit eat up
 screw it might as well
what you gone eat
ramen noodles lol



not that people are actually coming for ciara for having a baby by her dang husband!! oooh i strongly dislike allllll of you.
who did they want her to have it by? 
these mfs still waiting on her to go back to future like she don't have a whole husband... 
but if she were to go back they were talk about her for doing russell like that...
exactly! like just love to criticize women as if future doesn't have 5 more women out there with his children. like bye man.



westbrook somewhere chuckling with a notepad in hand.
warriors gone win by 40 when they play okc



promise you it wont be a close game






i loveeeeeeeeeeee this  screw
this seems sooooo up your alley!
right? omg soooooo jam
i love it lmao i'm so lkajfkjafk gosh. i /love/ it
it was junho's song right?wowow



i think i will hide my stuff somewhere when i will leave the house in case the robber sneak in again...
ommg?? what happened??
we didn't heard anyone entering in the appartment ?????
what the hell?!? id be so dang scared thoughwere the doors locked?
no because we was there so we thought i'd be fine but  screw we will lock it all the time now.... it's scary indeed o.o



my uber driver is listening to old school r&amp;b and getting real into it and singing the highest pitch female parts under his breath.
my uber driver about to kill me tbh
oh no why/how 
worst driver ever
jump out the door. tuck and roll. don't die



where are your photos darling?
they're all in my profile. same place they've always been
it's my phone...but i found them.
lol, i was hoping my account wasn't glitched or what not
all your great pics are there.



i will not just sit there and let my sisters fight !! idc idc i am going to jump in if you them you going to have to be touched by me
 even if she winning?
even if she winning
you tripping.
my mama told don't let nobody hit your sisters,brothers , cousins allat so



let's take a vote! should chuck rub josh's back?
other way around
but josh is the one who has a problem!
now all three of us have problems #rubchucksback
stop that hashtag now



my  sore as  screw , worst pain ever
that's what you get
lol that's so not nice taj
yo boobies
they hurt so bad i wanna cry



back to the gym...day 1 begins now.
awesome! did you kill it on your first day back?
like a boss!
sweet. we knew it! so know that you're back on the grind, are you going to the gym every day??
not every day but as much as possible. looking into 530am sessions.



would much rather have two more stud d in this lineup #trouba #lindholm with the young fs than #kadri and #jvr those d will mature at 26.
jets want a stud d in return. reilly only one that fits their wants.
really? they should rethink that. #little is miscast with too many minutes. kads would alleviate the minutes.
problem is kadri is overpaid. no way anyone takes that contract.
what? he has a great contract! he is a 2- c unlike #little who is a 3+ with much more grit and more offence.



ridin round my city, got a blondie sittin shotty and she lookin pretty
false
how do you know?
cause you're eating chips in bed, also your name is cam
first off it was popcorn(you tried it) second off that was an hour ago and third off my name is cameron



just got the xbox one - let's see how long i keep the tv integration thing in play. i'm thinking not long.
what took you so long
it seemed like the tv feature was the big deal and it didn't appeal to me
i don't use that just games
doesn't matter though - now i got both of em :)



that first loss a fluke
kd fluke
how?
cause he a dude butt nigga. blow a 3-1 lead to them niggas. then join they team. he had a squad. should a went to the finals.
he also abandoned his man's. and he be acting all soft and emotional.



excuse me while i try to figure out how to make the coffee before ive had the coffee.
you need some sort of pre-coffee coffee.
cocaine, right? youre talking about cocaine?
if that's what the kids are calling it these days.
goshdang kids these days with their pre-coffee and their sms.



"mostly all marines are  screw boys" --a us marine 
they say that about all of em 
smh 
it's okay just sneak the gps into their phone lmao
lmao if only



update: my lyft driver has madea's voice as his gps and my ankle is sprained from the show
amazing
this is what dreams are made of 
honestly i want that voice as my gps
too much sbutt lmao idk if i can handle it



so, we will probably see miguel montero vs. trevor bauer tonight. that might be somewhat entertaining. like bauer needs the added motivation
really? i'm surprised it's not willson contreras starting at catcher for them
montero usually catches arrieta. we'll see. they may opt for contreras given time of year, but montero normally does.
contreras scares me hahaha
yeah hes pretty darn good. i told a cubs fan last night that he scared me more at the plate than baez



i'm up at 3am practicing my costume makeup.  wide awake and crap
and never texted me and crap
dammit jordyn you didn't respond so i totally forgot #yourfault
don't yell
i didn't yell..



can't wait for the party &amp; jeremih show
i tried buyin tix for me n the homie but they sold out im mad now the prices are inflated as a mug :(
the prices they're going for now are how much the meet &amp; greets were 
im dumb for procrastinating like i knew my dumb butt wanted to go i shouldve bought them as soon as it was announced
me too, i gave in to resell prices though /:



wooohoooo!!
i totally forgot!  what time does it start again?
it starts at 8! 
hopefully i can find a babysitter! i'll let you kno.
oooookayyyy.



so sleepy.
be safe
always
what time u be in miami?
im not coming until thursday night



goliath is a good show. my wife and i have enjoyed it so far. #goliath #amazon
how far in are you?
watched 6 episodes. some parts are weird but overall like it. nice combo of this plus bosch.
im starting episode 6 now. im totally lost on the relationship between the young lawyer and the old guy.
us too. its weird.



these commentators are wild, this dude said the spurs ain't that good
not this yr b
wym
idk im just talking g  i ain't even watch the game
lol spurs beat them boys up



gym time
yea right i'm going to bed nigga
pinchi vato lonjudo
no hay pedo compa, es el pisto
your compa alex with the hot cheeto fries tho



woke up and found out we were able to get tickets to chelsea tottenham next month!i've never been happier
nshalla betkoun overweight 3al tiyara you dummy
bjeblak matchday programme and will try to get it signed 
no homo
you know it's as homo as it can get



i really want more zabivaka porn. like a lot more!
guess what my plan is for tonight :p
are you streaming? :&gt;
around 10 hours from now, if i'm not too exhausted later
i think i'll be asleep then :c



us photographers are always last. it's like you want it when!!!???
i am just hiding here for speak out my real thought...
it's cool. harder for me to hide though.
coz followers are around in your real life?
no the are not. no effn way will i meet someone from here. most are woman that scare me. so no. just no.



happy birthday scotty b i might be crazy, but i actually miss you have a great day b, you deserve it!
i miss you too dom
i'll be at state on saturday, so maybe i'll see ya
yes! text me when you get here
will do



guys what should i be for halloween??????? need real tips
troll doll, johnny bravo, shaggy from scooby doo, lunch lady, sexy kitty, girl who shakes the fish in finding memo, drake
twinkie, gatsby, mermaid man or barnacle boy, avocado, ron swanson, ron burgundy, blades of glory guys, mr. incredible, pug
austin powers, nick miller, schmidt, chris kyle, justin bieber, gynecologist,  poop emoji, stitch, harambe and i'm out
tysm i'll try to pick one



things i want to study: cultural anthropology, world mythology, religion, east asian history, astrophysics again, evolutionary biology,
poetry, non european literature, philosophy, queer history, women's history, fashion, shamanism, sculpture, particle physics, sequential art
the ideal: writing for a living but then taking like 4 clbuttes per year for the rest of my life.
get a job at usc (that involves writing???) and you get a certain number of clbutt credits for free!
bruhh i bet a lot of colleges do that omg good idea






big difference between discerning a ball/strike in baseball and fumble/catch in football.
theres more to look at in football. in baseball, a computer as you see on tv, can do it instantly.
ball/strike is a black and white call. two states. fumbles and catches are not.
black and white calls should be decided by technology. especially when a baseball is moving 80-105 mph.



theoretically, lets say you have a companion, should it be controlled by the leader or act depending on the situation in the fight?
is this for bs? how's the combat work right now? i think that would be an important influence on the direction you take.
personally i don't find ai companions very fun or game-changing, they're often just... there.
it'd be cool to implement a coop mode w this feature though. not sure how accessible that'd be on the roblox platform tho.
if it's turned-based definitely buttume control. making it ai just creates a variable out of your control.



holy  screw i hate cpanel.
that's a bummer. we're not for everyone, though, i understand. is there anything i can do to help?
nope. my provider includes it by default, and it is not the easiest to clean out. all good now. i think. less you, more them.
totally understandable. if i can help you minimize the impact at all, or answer any other questions, definitely let me know!
thanks, and thanks for reaching out!



poor tj mcconnell smfh
bayless don't start point?
he hurt
have a priest pray over tj before warmups
it's gonna be ugly.



it's so funny how people that live in denton think that the asheboro mall is fancy 
people from denton are hillbillies so
explains why i'm always there 
the only good thing about denton is the japanese food lol
bruh i didn't even know they had japanese food



6 am workouts and i'm somehow still awake rn. kill me.
this motivates me to workout today even tho i feel sick and have a headache 
just doooo it 
btw did you just change your avi again? 
it's my trademark i haven't done it in a while lol



you know when you eat "healthy then you have random urges for rice &amp; stew -- my africans know what i'm talking about 
rice and stew is healthy bro lolol
aha says who?!
we live on rice and stew and we all skinny lmao
lol some people for sure



a true steeler fan demands more than a list of empty apologies and promises. #steelers #banbigbum
boi u ain't no steelers fan smh
you ain't no english speaker, boi
boi u stupid, making all kinds of stupid comments. just stop
yo boi, my tweets be fire af, boi.



does rose water help improve skin?
yesssss, helped my skin so much, reduced size of my pores, nose area is way less shiny, even some acne scars faded
right.. cause i use witch hazel now. are they like the same thing?
yeah but witch hazel dried my skin out a lot but i guess it's just whatever works for you, everyone's different (:
aight bet bet bet bet bet bet! imma get some today &amp; see what it's shakin with



my birthday november 11... make a note of that crap.
i'll think about it
bring lotus 
bye keith
lol i neeeeed it



i know 2016 has been rough, but if this is the year joe arpaio finally goes down, it might have been worth it.
were sure trying out here.
good luck. we're all counting on you. 
gotta say, its disheartening. ive spent years doing voter reg, financially supporting opponents, &amp; writing, but arpaio keeps winning.
that said, your talk at altconf this year did a lot to reinvigorate me. thank you for that.



pls explain
were you already at the stop when the bus arrived or approaching vehicle when it was at the stop? ^hk
i was waiting at the stop and two 196 buses pulled up, we tried to go to the empty one but he looked at us and closed the door
not sure why the operator was not able to wait and accomodate you. were you able to get on the other bus? ^hk
no i ended up having to wait for another bus to come



some of the conversations ash and i have actually sound like we date or something idk
so ur cheating on me
oops
that's fine, nexttt
stfu and love me



i don't think it's coincidence that pretty and petty are spelled so similar 
oh my gawwdddd 
well am i wrong??!? lol
spot on babe 
forreal.



you never ask me
you're always there anyways
yea well an invite would be nice ya know
next time you'll get a personal one
cool ttyl 




what did she make you get 
she didn't technically make me, but she is a very good at convincing
oh i see lmao &amp; i see why you got that 
you know me 



im siced asf i got a 100 on that us/va test  im tufffff
ur not
who r u again ??? 
bet
lmaooo, just kidding 



i washed my bangs so does that count for washing my hair? i think it does 
i do that because i don't want to was the whole head, but those bangs gotta be styled dry shampoo the rest!
it was pony tail day but i loooovvee dry shampoos!
growing out a pixie cut, so i am ready to rip my hair out. over it. hate it. 
been there! i know the feeling oh so well



biggest pet peeve is when i tell a customer "have a good day" and then they don't say anything back
same. and when my staff leaves me hanging and don't show up for their shifts  i miss you! i wish we could've talked longer!
omg i know i can't believe that, i would have been there if i wasn't working! &amp; i miss you i wish we could have also!!
that would have been so nice to work with you again!! let's hang out soon! 
i know we'll plan something soon!



how do i have 11 absences in english already 
15*
still got a a tho 
c*
 ms white is a saint



if you text back in 0.5 seconds hmu
you got a iphone?
yes ma'am
i ask cause i wanna play pool
say less 



it's a bad day to be paul... 
what's going on
she's gonna officially break it off today.. poor paul.. it's not his fault he was born boring...
rip pauddy
the last thing i said to her when i dropped her off at school was "be nice to him" 



watching this tnt nba deal about race, such weak sauce, so out of touch of the legit issues of the movement, why bother then
like...what...is...the...point if you're giving one sided opinions?
can at least one of them talk about their experience about how they were fd with because of their race, they have stories
especially jim brown. they're not offering anything outside of typical victim/community blaming. this is solving nothing.
barkley is so out of touch, he is an uncle tom



i see you all the time 
lol you do . why youn speak 
you be looking unbothered &amp; it'd be awkward just walking up being like oh ik you lol
kml only because ion like people staring at me  but you could've came up to me . i'm nice 
eventually maybe lol



i've been in college like 1/8th of the year and i already have 20 nau shirts
it doesn't stop the older you get either
i love it
the shirts and the free food make it all worth it 
you're right!! that's where all the money went that i paid!



he did not raise those kids, their mothers and nannies did. he left his family for another woman when ivanka was seven.  #debate
you know so much ..... i am so impressed,,, should write a book
have
okay, i just think you might be buttuming a bit about nanny.   mothers,agree..but he kids have his business mind,,, he taught them
you may be right. by their own admission, if they wanted to see dad it had to be in his office.



filipinos and their trash decisions
just like ur trash plays, scrub
fck you bruh. 70% league 20% ow 10% starcraft 2.. yes i will be mlg
most legit gamer
if mag succeed streaming plan ko. feature taka haha



tengo uno polmico: ximena clark #iguols
como el horno no estaba para bollos el otro da, nunca le pregunt al robok si considera que liz hurley es demasiado joven an.
el sr r me endilga (?) a m un gusto nefando por las menopusicas, de modo que seguro la encuentra bieja a hurley
oh, perdn. los confund.
conoce a charlotte rampling, laider?



wish i liked concerts i would go see kanye
what dont u like abt kanye?
lol thats what i meant to ask.....
just too many people too much going on. i only would/have gone thru that for someone i absolutely love.... aka rihanna 
lol omg. i love concerts, everything abt them. kanye concerts are great tho, so visual w ittt



oh this was a three parter huh? i totally forgot that! goodnite all and thanks 4 being here. sleep well and take care. llap.  #allstartrek
you have a good night too. hoping for good sleep for you tonight! 
thanks kat and patrick. u guys both sleep well yourself. appreciate all the love and hugs &amp; knowing u care. c'ya tomorrow.

thanks hon. i mean it.  many hugs back!



flintsones to snow halation
shrieking raptor melody
im crying ava its so good
i hate it so much but i love it at the same time
right???



maybe cause i was sleepy and dosed off but last night's #atlantafx was blaaah
never watched that either. remind me next wk when it comes on.
gurrrrrl  imma need you to get with it
lol
sooo we getting that business proposal together?



got that cashin remix coming 
writing the verse as we speak
my dawg!!!  i need to send that to snook to short that hook and see how much more i gotta write
i think it's only like 4 more bars
oh crap that ain't crap to come up with lol



your tweets about texas are making me want to come home 
... oh yeah, that's right ... i'm still in sd . i'll be home in fall of next year!!
you're supposed to visit me here in texas, but wya
i know, i know, lo siento!!!  i was going during christmas but, my grandparents decided to come out to cali for christmas 
omg whyyyyy. tell them no



im not good enough to play at and d1 or d2 schools that would be a dream
i'm sorry what was that? 
wow, i don't even remember tweeting that 
 gotta love timehop it's awesome to see that though because now look har far you've come man
dang that's awesome



/ break is front page stuff!
what story ?
has dem-organized violence @ trump rallies, mbutt voter fraud, campaign law breaches.
story were you indicating






hey, you're the worst journalist ever. never do an interview again.
you don't understand crap is my problem, my next video will address that...
triggered, much? i don't want to watch any more of your crap videos. i have no respect for cucky retards like you.
do the world a favor and don't. your respect would mean crap to me anyway don't mention it like i care, thanks :)
the world? dude you suck so bad at insults/comebacks. i shouldn't have expected anything more from a retard.



when he leaves you on delivered..
no one wants you idiot
go suck a dick somewhere else
i will 
i know



i want to get the 7 but i'm so skeptical but i need a new iphone 
which one you got now?
the 5s cause i couldn't upgrade for the longest time cause at&amp;t is an butthole 
they let me upgrade no problem &amp; that's the only reason i upgraded was because i had a 5s
lol, well you're probably a better customer then i am...lol i feel kinda forced to upgrade but i don't see the need



cubs just took the hard l
with 3 more in your future
put $5 on it
make it $10
say less



craving wings
have you tried wings n go?
dude yessss
recommend?
hell yeah lol super affordable also



so happy i get to go back to  vit nam sooner than i thought 
take meee
throw $5000
it's 5 racks to get out there 
plane ticket can be over $1000 but inflation is high $50= 1mil in their money but prices are different like 20,000 for soup



now i know why i was crapting all day. that dang chia seed lemonade that japanese restaurant gave me lol

lmao yeah they gave us these drinks in a tiny shot sized cup and all today i've been using the bathroom lol
they gave you a cleanser.
lmfao whatever it is i kinda like it 



wtf who put all this rain outside. put that back.
you can give it to me if you dont like it
it's ugly drippy rain in 8c,though ...not nice rain
thats okay i dont discriminate
i will tell it to head overseas for you



my mom talking to mitch: "i think the last two times i've been out of state you've gone to the emergency room so let's not this time okay?"
my mom can agree that that just happens when you have boys
haha you're living proof 
exactly! but i'm still alive
too bad /:






thanks.. i love that analogy!
trish u gonna be at inbound016?
yes... speaking at 1pm on 11/9. come to my session!
you bet i will!



masters of the machines tonight! #boston #hiphop #rap #beats #instrumentals #showcase #battle #show #nightlife
yo i put you on the list homie.
my dude!!! good looking out brosef!!!  kill that crap tonight!!! i'll def be there tonight! what times the show 2nite?
doors at 9 pm i believe.
wordliiife!! let's get it!!



replaying all the bioshock games i have come to realize infinite wasnt that great. :/
we didn't talk about this? i fell for the hype, but infinite is ridiculously overrated.
the burial at sea episodes are a lot better. not just because it was rapture, the gameplay was just heavily improved.
gear system is a  screwing joke. how do you go from bs1/2 system to a 5 item gear system. the actual  screw.
ywah man, infinite is bullcrap. i don't know what the devs were thinking, it's so watered down compared to 1



you mean the camera at the george washington bridge is face northern manhattan-not the bronx.
yes correct, i was thinking it leads to the cross bronx expwy so my wires got crossed there.
oh, i see.
thanks for listening and paying attention  :)
you're kindly welcome. i watch good day new york almost every morning.



#gh jane elliot looking flawless as ever!!!!!
that's why she's the queen of port charles.
yes ma'am she is!!! plus the wardrobe department is finally dressing her right. no more fashions by dorothy zbornak.
when she returned to gh in 2003, she told soap opera digest that she hadn't gone clothes shopping in 10 years. lol
she even had deidre hall doing her hair. #thestruggleisreal



help seriously
'smatter hon?
pain. sdudes. life.
wish there was something i could do
what i need is someone to help me go sdude shopping. i'm literally wearing 2 right sdudes



to all cubs fans, if you win the series, congrats it's been 108 years
i'll shoot your dog.
i'll kill your cat and take a video of it 
don't be from marshall.
i do what i want.



i've got major issues sleeping. melatonin doesn't move the needle. i can read halfway through a polymer eng. textbook without sleeping
sorry man. that sucks.
i don't know if there's a relationship between insomnia symptoms and uc.
i dont know either. id be surprised if there were not, because it seems logical, but i dont know.
one thing that's unusual is that me and another family member both got it at times of great sedentary-ness. i got it when



i was just told that i care too much about my friends. how the  screw does that work??
you don't even hang out with me anymore so i disagree with that statement
tyler said that to me but okay
stop talking to him
i would if he'd leave me tf alone



lmfaoooo these niggas would b up rn &amp; call me to smoke up
pipe. 
wym? lol
hahaha it's cus my homie kept bringing up oil burners earlier . that dang tweaker. lol shwb show on halloween. let's get it?
might go idk yet lol



when i see you x fantasia is a top 5 r&amp;b song. debate your auntie
i disagree with that...but the remix with remy was my crap
exit
lmaoo. i'd love to see the rest of your top 5.
lmao it's dismal i don't even like r&amp;b



lol aye yo this video i just saw...... teanna trump outta jail yet bruh???
she gonna get out and her new thing gonna be eating pussy i'd almost bet on it lmfao
nigga i  screwing hope not lol lesbian porn is boring as crap
i don't even watch that crap unless a strap on involved and even that crap boring
lmfao you feel me bruh!!! i need some penetration going on or else that crap is boring



i wanna get a nice hotel or penthouse or somethinggggg for rocky point but it's hard to find pppl who will pay their part, and ahead of time
when are you goingggg 
spring break again 
i'm like totally inviting myself rn hahah but i'd be so down 
dude no idc lol you should come you're definitely more than welcome to when i do!! we should plan



for face timing me for a minute to say happy birthday during a set thats how you know its real

did you guys have a great night ?
yes we did, getter was frickin dope 
i'm so happy you guys had a great night aye during our short face time i got apple b's lit i was like ayyyyeee lol



michelle is constantly yelling at me to put the top lid of the toilet seat down and i always shrug it off...
i hate the thought of my pets drinking from the toiletcause that's what they do if we don't put the lid down. buttlickers.
i only buttumed dogs did this... so gross. lol
drink toilet water or lick their own butt?
lol. toilet water.



i'm busting in brooklyn!
tell em mariann!   i've had enough of this fat butt.   howard is too nice to him cut all ties immediately.  #vortex
im holding but no pick up .. too aggravating
howard will pick up hang tight!   #caw #caw #caw
no he's had enough got to change my topic



girl i miss your irky butt
miss you more i'm coming over this weekend so be prepared 
lol aight see you lil bih 
girl what atlanta nigga done taught u the word "bih" unfinished butt word
lmao i cannot w/ you, ain't nobody teach me that .



is it ok to say no kids allowed at a wedding?
is it a small child or a big child
any child.
what if the child has that benjamin button?
you're overthinking this ces :p



it's always something
hey zaddy 
hey sexy 
go to sleep. or you'll have bags. and be ugly.
too late



so hungry
you're a cocksucker for dubbing my facetime at 3:40 am bro like cmon you're not busy
im on my computer bro my phone is dead
this  screwing guy go to a gas station and buy a charger
i'm tired of this  screwing guy retweeting me every time i say this  screwing guy



getting feeling back in ur nipples after a boob job is the one of the most uncomfortable sensations ever
you had one?
yea
i gotta find your before pic lol
look hard enough u might find one lol



so i came to a haunted house thinking that ucla students would be the actors...
they were the actors
lmao so the guy lied to me ???
prob
i lost trust in ucla



got off on all all nine charges. panicking can now cease.
charges? the hell?!?
i'm a felon
how?
long story. i'll tell ya about it when i get a phone repair hopefully today



i miss kevon 
huhhhh, 
i kinda sorta do 
whyyyyyy 
sn that's my son 



should i go see chance the rapper or kanye 
you need to come see me idiot
chance is this saturday 
chance tbh
i've been thinking about it but i think he might be doing a lot of his new gay crap



america has all sorts of problems, but the american view of religious freedom is far superior to the lacit of europe.
how so?
for one, in america, symbols of religion, like the hijab, are accepted, which helps people of different faiths buttimilate.
okay. what else?
america also allows people to freely profess religion in public spaces. this can go too far, but so can enforced secularism.



please by all means come home and complain about your day to me &amp; then proceed to tell me birthdays don't matter when you're older 
omg wtf espi
my day just went to crap
why is she like this...
idk man



tiara said she's gonna fight you lol
 why what i do? lol
lmao she said you left her.
lol nooooo  wait i had to my rate was horrible smh
 aw man.



wing stop starts selling brownies next week 
you gonna add an extra kick to em  if you know what i mean lol
trust me i already had plans when i saw them
better hook me up lol
ok i got you 



people really take the time out their lives to block folks from social media when they mad..
what's wrong with blocking ppl?
i don't want to make this a debate it's just my opinion
i wasn't trying to "debate" i just wanted to know your reasoning
it's just childish to me... to run to a social site and block someone. you put to much time into that.



nothing to like here 
awww poor baby

it's too early to be hurting yourself
i did it yesterday thought it was just a tweak... but i woke up this morning to find out otherwise



i haven't sang in front of a crowd since middle school and i'm so nervous for tomorrow omg
you'll do great!
aww thanks kent!! 
you did so well tonight!!
thank you!! 



i'm taking my vicks and put it around my mask. the smell is gonna be amazing!
hey! i think we're going to kanye the same day 
omg, i don't even know what day i'm even going anymore. my friend is playing with my feelings. lol
nooooooo  we're going november 1st!
i'm gonna see if i can get my pit ticket for nov 1st. i need to go with you guys!



i have all as and a single b in aice biology i want o u t
i have all cs
hey what matters is you're not failing
it's only the beginning of the year you wait
i believe in u sis



nothing screams "insecurity" like posting a snapchat story on your girlfriends account threatening other men.
that nobody wants.
you saw it too? lol
lol yeah cause i was gonna respond directly to it with "bruh nobody wants either of ya'll, that's why you're together. "
i wanna know if he thought the face he made was intimidating or something



pointless tattoos are literally the worst lol
the shading wack, the outline wack, the way it looks wack.
won't @ em tho
lmao don't have to
who hurt you?



kung fu panda series &amp; chill
majesticcasual and chill?
trianglemusic and chill
bird chirps and chill?
chair squeaks and chill



why am i wide awake
we all in this together
are u quoting high school musical ..
if i knew more i would continue quoting it
this is why ur my fav



i was guna sleep but i remembered we have vanilla wafers
we dont have any
i just stood in front of the pantry for 2 mins with my hand on my forehead because we don't have any
i know this feel all too well i am sorry for your hurt
thank u friend



so eager to get this party started i can't sleep #bbcon #bbcon2016
hey, patti. i have no idea what advancement services are, but i'd love to find out. i'm new to the nonprofit sector and, 1/
booth if you'd like to stop by. 2/2
i'll definitely stop by!
please do. we're booth 200.



up late thinking about the fact that glenn is actually dead
whats glenn favorite restaurant?
ihu lmaooo
lol poyeyes
so much disrespect to my mans dang i miss him



being attached ain no joke 
hey wyd
omw home wyd
y u leaving
im not feeling well



ideal date, go to sprouts and shop for health
i'm taking you to friday's half price apps...
i like that you said you were going to sleep yet you're on twitter 

ideal date look at open houses in the phx area for inspiration



    --   












whattttttt 
she had a wet rag and threw it at me so i wiped it on my butt threw it back and she wiped her face with it
oh my gosh..... 
best part about it is i didn't tell her until after she wiped her face with it 



find me a tusculum nigga bye
lmbo i gotcha say less.
u playing
lol i'm searching early this morning in clbutt right now .
when u find one let me know make sure they got transportation to et 



i really just want to see the northern lights



yes
girl..past your bedtime what doin?
i woke up to go pee



i think feign death is bugged in pvp, in battlegrounds at least it never takes me out of combat (no pets/no enemies near)
also shadowmeld doesn't work for getting out of combat :(
alsooo why can't we use engineering belt and cape in bgs still ???
or regular food for that matter :p  need mage food xd
also can't use drums of fury but normal bloodlust works ;_;



can i just say how much i love emma...my baby
i dunno if this is me emma but i love youuu
yesss you're the only emma i talk to 
omg love you 
love you too my little baby. 



jay is jobless and on that stuff? is that what i'm reading?
ummmmm you here in the states????? 
yes ma'am. daddy in the hospital
oh no im sorry to hear that :(
thanks nori 



i'm so bored
let's go skydiving
i'm down
next month?
just give me da date i'm downnnnn whenever



anyone else getting the 404 error trying to get the #urbandecay #fullspectrum palette   what's going on?
i sat refreshing the page for like 5 minutes, and when it finally came up, it was out of stock
whatt??? for me it's just been showing 404! ugh i've been waiting months it can be out of stock in 5 minutes!! 
ikr! i'm so upset. my local sephora said they get it nov 2. i'm bout to be camping out before they open 
honestly!! like saved my bday money for this palette i've been waited sense they teased it. gotta call my sephora! 






nothing worse than a bitter old lady, dear 
who's bitter and old? i'm actually extremely grateful love. 
okay i was harsh, sorry. but it was kinda shady
it's ok honey speak your mind.






which one are you up to?
season 3 episode 3
incredible episode
on board next lol



in need of a new church
antioch (:
only if i get to sit by you lil shawty
ew don't call me that 
had to think of something you disliked 



i was finishing up this buttignment till i checked my twitter notifications 

twitter is such a big distraction yo 
exactly my spanish teacher keep telling me put my phone away 
put it away and learn some spanish 



i'm coming back to louisiana tomorrow but watch how fast i jet out 
what time u leaving
my flight for 2:45
what side of town u on rn
decatur, dekalb county



if i do my laundry naked, i can actually get all of my laundry done #showerthoughts ...may have actually done this once or twice #tmituesday
kigus work!
i has not one :o
aw! i made my own. :f but they're pretty cheap, roo!
... :o neato  i suppose that would make it better. x3



grows by the day
same girl i just love her
the new originals season came on to netflix and it reminded me of how much i love her 
and once you catch up the new season starts in january or february on cw!!!!
oh i already finished it  i can't wait!



oui.!
wat happen to the warriors
game 1 outta 82 we gone be straight.!
they shouldn't lose a game
81-1 then we will take it my boy just want a ring..



uber from ny to philly.
megabus? that's gonna be od expensive
i already took it lol.
oh lmao i was about to say
lol it was high, but the bus wasn't leaving in time.



i can't wait for the netflix marvel characters to finally join forces and beat the crap out of daredevil.
eh, i guess i'd rather they were just as annoyed with daredevil as i am.
haven't seen the new season. what's gone bad?
i liked the first season. 2nd season doesn't live up to the nuance of the other marvel shows.
how do you feel about luke cage so far? the marvel show for me know where i didn't get the hype was jessica jones.



the strangers just csme on tv. i'm  screwed. not sleeping..bye.
that movie is the creepiest movie i've ever seen
hold me. i'm scared lol
lmaoooo i was scared when i was at that creepy motel 
i was dead butt about to call the police hahahha



#deaffriendly
no need to be nervous, chris! where are you headed today? ^ln
thanks! dallas then pdudenix.
you're wingin' it to the other side of the country! dm your rapid rewards number, we'd luv to send you a treat. ^ln
holla! thank you! we're on the plane, thanks to very patient gate agents.



sarina always complaining how she want someone but she lowkey a dude 
i just need somebody to loveeeeeee. and then i won't be a dude,  screw u
stop being weird big bro
sorry ):
nah just continue to be weird, hate when you're quiet



i  screwing love pirates of the caribbean idk if i'm more in love with jack or will
you saw the trailer for the new one?
wtf no i didn't
whaaaaaaat you schleep
ima look it up rn wtf i didn't know



my mom accidentally let her cat out tonight and if he doesn't come home by the morning, she's going to be a mess 
he's not use the scent, i would go look for him miki
we did for like 30 minutes with the treat bag and he didn't come

she'll be devastated. she loves that cat so much 



wyd
idiot i'm in bed tf
umm you could've politely said, "laying down" idiot butt dude

 screwing idiot lmaoo



the movie 28 weeks later scares the  screw out of me. i hate fast zombies!
yo 28 days takes the cake though. they were more of an enigma in that movie and you never knew where they were coming from.
dude 28 days and 28 weeks later are the two zombie movies that scare the  screw out of me and give me nightmares.
hold up bro hold up. you  seen dawn of the dead the remake?
honestly no why it's bad ?



/sings promise korean version/
saaaame the jpn version  screws me up. like. klajflkajfk
lmfaoooooooo i did the same for go crazy xd they sing jp one i sing kr one hhahahahaha
took a while but like, hands up in jpn grew on me but lmao those two
i usually sing along in korean for the songs with both jp/kr version lmao



game day #thunderup
carson i've never seen a sports fan go through the identity crisis you have gone through for two years.
#vfl#titanup#thunderup #gobraves
you went through #gopackgo #keeppounding #dubnation but i feel like you are finally home where you belong
it took a lot of thinking lol



wow i went to work from 8-5 got home and did he until 7 then went to study until 9 then worked out until 10:30 and i'm barely going to bathe
and shower then i need to practice for my speech tomorrow :))))
hw*
very proud
thanks ally 



how do you volunteer for the foundation if you live in canada? is it possible? i really wish i could help somehow.
thanks for the support margaret, why don't you hold an event or fundraiser - that way you can support our work from afar! x
that is a great idea! thanks for the reply. i will do my best to come up with something. talk to you again. xox
wonderful! thank you margaret, feel free to email us at fundraising.org for ideas or support x
do you have scentsy products in england perhaps london? it is where you warm up scented wax - so natural and safe to breathe



what's good my g
crap just coolin.. waddup my guy?
just cooling bro working how you looking on the courts
vintage lt.. in my 
 you got my # still hit me up boy we got to link.



any idiot before me any idiot after me 

no but fr tho.
better do it girl 
i does this. if you didn't know now . . you will 



let me guess indians fans. this series is over? you of the 3rd lowest fan attendance in the league in 2016? #cubs
attendance means what?
means their fans didn't support them at the park during the season? great team, but that is what that means.
whatever makes you feel better, maybe the cards will fare better next season.
we have 11 championships. st louis isn't a wait till next year town.



only night we aren't free is saturday, but it's looking like that game may not be the huge deal it had the potential to be 



?
#worldseries
we are in! come on over!



only been up an hour and already having the worst  screwing day.. and i have no coffee, pray for us all
listen though. today may have started out awful but now you're seasoned &amp; prepared so make the rest of it wonderful
you mean just crying about it won't make it any better...
who said that? crying and complaining make everything better because sometimes you've just got to get it out or you'll be bitter
here's hoping that and coffee helps



if you're only supposed to be a nut and i've made that clear don't causally text me on "wyd?" dry butt convo type crap.
lmao yo i had a discussion with a group of ppl about this same crap and they didn't agree with this.
really hate it, when i didn't exchange numbers to be friends lol.
exaaactly! you have one job and that's to get this nut. regular convo outside of that is unnecessary unless it's established
yes, now when i text you just for the address and days later you're hitting me up for casual talk 



when your dabbin in your car &amp; your neighbor comes up to you to let you hit his g-pen lmao i'm zooted
but was it jeff?
nah it was my neighbor on the other side of my house lol
man this would've been top 5 coolest things ever if jeff was hitting g pens
you're right 



i be at work high dennaho  screwing up shi
lmfao u hell. b dropping shii i kno
hell yea. it make time go by fast but what you got going this weekend
none i got a lame life. what's the play? link
i'll b in commerce



applied at the ram and desert sun  i need another job now
desert suns whack. join the ttan squad
where do they have one??
16 locations man
ok cool i'll apply



i'm at such a good place in my relationship rn &amp; it's making me so happy 
i'm jealous
it's not always like this, but dang when it is trust me when i say not all guys are the same. be patient my queet
i'm dead!!!! 
delete me off twitter bye



re: that trump cocktail menu... the trumps (&amp; those that aspire to be) seem to do a lot of "trying to act like they think rich people would"
like, hmmm... a drink with oysters and caviar in it? that sounds fancy... clearly a rich person would drink this!
oh, i can put gold lame curtains up over a gilded window frame? this is surely what a wealthy person would do because they're wealthy.
it's all pretend and artifice... like a kid trying on his father's sportcoat and sdudes.
more like putting lipstick on a pig.



your wcw be on the tl deleting her tweets for no reason
you look like a teddy bear. that's not a bad thing btw.
lmaoo thanks ??
no problem. u ever seen that white bear on the bimbo bread?
what the hell



3rd house my parents have tried to buy.. please let this one be home 
omg buy our home!
you're selling your house?
yea 
ahh where are you moving? and dude i wish we could have bought your house it's nice ahah but they already want this one 



i'm determined to finish this book today! if only i could stop reading twitter... 
lol, did you finish?
nope. i got distracted with pretty boys &amp; dreams of edging. 
awwww! good luck today then!
thanks! almost done. lol



tbh the song back where i come from gives me the chills every dang time
that right there is america
i mean kenny was bad as  screw back in the day. who gets into water fully clothed ya know
alan jackson did also !
this is very true



update i've found my keys :-)
can u bring me a water bottle and drop it by my clbutt
i saw dis while i'm walking inside smh
such a sad day
i have one in my car too



when i lived there briefly i got fired cause my boss was racist &amp; after i went two more latina girls got fired for no reason
ur from rva? i'm from nova no way. and yeah that's crazy i lived in south beach for a year and definitely experienced a lot of
i'm from rva yes but i just moved back from miami i was there for 2 years but i'm moving to la in springtime!
ayyyy! that's cool! hmu when u get down here!
absolutely! 



damian lilard goin for mvp and album of the year.
that weezy verse go harder than a mf
my cousin put me on 
if dude had time to focus on rap all the way he'd be nice with it
hell yeah cause he be sayin real crap. he just gotta work on the flow a lil bit.



bikes for more than 24 hours...






need stations near lattc to avoid delays at grand/washington switch, ride straight to little tokyo or union station.
oh man i have wished for that literally every time i've been stuck sitting on the train at that platform






i do 
me and the homie going to stream today are you down will you be available?
about what time?
1pm pst



i really enjoy food these days.is that a middle-age thing?
i think it's a human thing 
i'm...i'm human!!??
i often forget i'm not a disembodied spirit. the hunger eventually reminds me.
that hunger! gets ya every time!






yes? lol
that's how you moving?
my retweets?
yeaa



andrew miller still good
hope his arm falls off
you take that back
never. i'm not looking forward to him being in our division for two more years
well i hadn't thought of that



is iw gonna be cross platform?
no just the same like xbox and ps4 no pc
fuuck
guess it's a good thing i got an xbox 1
you serious??



you know ya girl is set in her ways so who want to get on a group deal with me?  &amp; get a hotels for a 3 night stay and snowboard all day!
down 
alright i got you.. i'll keep you in the loop! 
i'm serious! 
i better get that deposit when i ask for it lol. also i'll send you the season pbuttes that are on sale now you better get them!



why is it suddenly so hard to be awake at this time :/
youve been doing it for years
thank you gabby, which is why i said suddenly. idiot. foh
it's not suddenly when you complain about it all the time
no gabby it is sudden. go away



rdr got a slow start?
kinda yea. you good but then fall off hard and gotta climb your way back into relevancy and good shape.
i was gonna fire it up. cant decide on what to play
halo
we dont play that in this house lol



gonna be live at the kanye concert
your going?
yes sir
ayye... you saw the warriors get waxed 
naw at work going to catch the highlights tho soon



what's your confidence level in qb wilton speight after 7 games?
voted something still to prove because of options. basically just want to see him perform in a big game like this week
if he's 8-0 come saturday afternoon, you all in?
yup, no doubt. and i believe he will be too. just need to see a little more. i think he will be better than he was vs wisky
what i mean by that is, he was good vs wisconsin, enough to win, i think he will have a huge day saturday



but lemme gts since everybody else did lol
i'm up lol
i see 
 wyd
 trying to get warm



is hot.
so random but thank you 
haha sorry.
don't be sorry  it's cool 
well alrighty then. 



everyone just wants to party in this town. i need to get tf out of here...
never thought i'd hear you say that since i feel you party all the time 
i do more than just party i actually live here...i have family here...i work a normal job here...it's not all partying
of course i know that! i just didn't think you were trying to chill
and why is that? because i only post about me going out? because i don't post about me working 50+ hours a week or at my nephews



spurs 
kd still getting that ring
you thought
thunder 
who said im an okc fan?



. 
so tell them to stop carrying one crappy made in china knock off line (ivanka) so we can all happily shop there
also, why punish all the other labels and businesses? if you don't like a product, don't buy it.
if they feel the impact they will drop her one crappy knockoff line and we can all be happy
seriously, just don't buy it. are you a #fashion designer or something?



good morning i'm thinking deeply about the film the wrestler. may be time for a rewatch.
its cranking its way up to being the best arnofsky film, which is odd
the only things he's done since then are black swan and noah, which i've never seen because i typically don't do bible films
youre not missing much with noah, honestly. black swan was fine.
i saw black swan. it retreaded a lot of the themes of wrestler, but felt like aronofsky wanted to be more "aronofsky" with it



kinda just wanna chill w my yfl brothas n sistas bc y'all fam af love u all. if ur from yfl or kfl or sfl or cbfl....i luv u!!! s/o to u
do i count 
o ya huh. sometimes i forget that's how we know e/o. i miss u too tho even tho we live together lmao 
i miss you so much  it's weird hahahah. we'll "reunite" really soon i hope.
 ily c u soon i hope love ya



do you have a manager for your music
we need one...have one in mind...our friends and business man ray..ideas?
no, that's explains things no cds, no shows, no itunes to buy your songs. no music videos.
a show? lol..we are 2 guys....he and i would habve to play drums bbutt...rythm and lead guitar as well as keyboard +sing
are you feeling alright brother



i don't want to be waiting months for it
haha didn't expect that ending said "here, this will help you remember" and cut jamie lannister'a hand off lol
not until june bro  and cut it smooth off!
khalessi just got an army and her dragon burned the bald dude! i'm in love bro! 
i didn't see this my bad bro but, yes i told you that you would dig the show dawg..



this nigga chad is gay i swear
it was the hack black butt 
who would do that...
lmao look at my snap. one of em really did that 
naw none of them did that



i left if any one of those teachers told me not to i was leaving regardless
i wouldve too. isnt this twice in a week now of evacuations?
who are you lady
whoa sorry there champ my kid goes there so i was looking for updates didnt know it was a problem 2 reply 2 u relax
oh i apologize not sure what's happening there right now



why single mothers always mad at everyone except the person that made them a single mom?
log off now
i'm bored at work
aren't you unemployed ?
exactly why i'm bored



chainsmokers closer #pensdj
that song is so overplayed. i'm over it.
don't let me down is overplayed - closer isn't played enough!
don't let me down is somewhat overplayed. nowhere near closer though!
you're overplayed!



so we're getting a couch next week . apartmentwarming soon come  #wewantgifts #yesliquorcounts
aww congrats..i didn't know you found a place. &amp; we? who your roommate 
oh yeah thanks boo ! qiyanah is my roommate 
yaaas okay okay! that's what's up, well i'll be at the warming once y'all get right!
ybuttssss . i'll keep you posted on deets



im shuffling through my ygo decks and why is my dragon deck so useless? i need to rebuild it. my blackwing deck is still gucci tho
i havent played in so long tho im super rusty w my cards and their effects.
lets gooooo
but remind me to bring my deck home
tell me when u go home



no puedo arrancarte de mi alma y de mi mente . . .
i've been told i have that effect on ppl  sorry
lol bishhhh ily  better see you monday 
ily2  i have to see what time i work, but i'll my best. either way we have to hang out &amp; catch up!
hope you can make it if not yes we needa plan at least a lunch date havent seen u in decades lol. 



women with big hair have a place in my heart and a place in my bed.
3a.m confession
nah, they knew this, i had to reiterate lol
alright i got you. i will let every big hair women today at school know there's a place in your bed for them
you real, give them my @ name lmao



there's this weird kid on ig who doesn't follow me but he'll go like &amp; unlike the same pic of me every single day. it's been 2weeks now tfff
can i just know why?  had to hit that block
mental challenges
i cannot deal i swear
private is way much better tho



yo why tf is there a semi stopped on the one way downtown unloading and crap during morning traffic?! wtf?
my fav time to call the ppl
what ppl?
wdudever tows and tickets ppl
ain't have time doe. i was already running late. i was pissed



ross cheated on rachel idc fight me!!
actually they were on a break
omg! don't do this!! so it makes it okay for him to cheat? if rachel would have done it every man would think otherwise 
buttt if she had never said she needed "a break from us" he never would have done any of that stuff!
point is he cheated and he knows he  screwed up big time that's why the ended up breaking up 



man, yuri on ice's ending song is so inspiring as well. even if i knew nothing about the anime, the opening and ending songs are so
symbolic and self-inspiring. it's a good message to anyone trying to go after their dreams.
not to mention, yuri isn't a prodigy. he's some normal awkward young twenty something that's coming into his own. i love that.
like i can see so much of myself in him. lacking the confidence, being anxious, believing in somebody so much. it's perfect.
i agree.



. what b the move
crap wbuttup me &amp; cory linking up friday
aw yeah? 
naturally link up if you off
on me i'm in pa for the week



soooo i got invited to compete in usc's hackathon this year and i'm super excited!!!!
what is that i am kinda curious what is now since i have seen your tweet
its just developers joining in teams to make apps for it systems and compete against other teams
ohh that's pretty kool now that i know what is but goodluck to you kill it out there
thank you!!



are looking for 1 for vegas. hit up nic or jazz they are in charge
i might come to vegas just to first round you old man 
that's just mean its ok tho i can get to the bar faster that way
haha, i'm jk nothin but love 
i know much love always



yooooo
my guy! give me some good news
back on the music grind. let's get it
hit my line
i just hit it.



bright and early 
why is that?
always up this early
really,early bird are ya?
can't wait to get the day started or just a habit?



up bored af
put down
aint you at school ?
when money involve
school first






i'm just super emotionally stunted not heartless
you're eating a single serving pre-packaged slice of pumpkin pie alone.
first of all  screw you second of all this is america i do what i want
ok enjoy your pie knowing that was made for broken families and orphans



the bridge by my apartment has a lane closed for construction so there's a big bottleneck of traffic there
so at least a few times a week i'm stopped at that bridge for minutes on end, just left to contemplate the fact i could just get out &amp; jump
it's not a fun time
also since this is indiana that bridge is going to be under construction for at least a few months moreyaaaaay
the main highway in/out of jersey city/holland tunnel has been under construction going on 3 years with no end in sight~



she built like a bag of onions and she got a boosie. please stop arguing with her on the tl. it's too early.
smh why are you this way lmao
halp me
lmao you're gonna make me tear up 
 i luh you. i need you



missed my 5am alarm &amp; woke up at 8:27 then got caught at 3 trains but i'm not even mad 
correction, 4 trains
dang!  where are you trying to go? lmao
just trying to get my brother to school 
good lord lol



 trying to hold out until 2.
you got it
 i'm trying, this bed comfortable too
you trying not to fall asleep and i'm trying to fall asleep 
 i just dozed off, i'm about to gone go..



i don't know i've never considered #predator a horror moviei see the case for it, but always considered it action first
it's a fancy slasher flick.
how did i go to bed before you
nanomachines.
that would explain a lot



i worked 10 hrs on my first day 
where you work out now
fremont ford boo!
idiot ! i need a ford escape lmfao 
is the pay good ?



donnie darko was released 15 years ago today, and it's still one of the best cult clbuttics.
the room is better
kys
yoouur tearing me apaaaaat lisa
i deed nat heet her, i deed nat



my chem professor is the biggest goober out there
all gen chem professors are compared to natali
i miss natali more and more everyday
that never goes away
i expected that to be true



had to add my crush on snap 
holla ya ha  lol it's time she stop being that
lol you cupid now fam 
lol yea my new job
lol shiddd how much you get paid ? y'all hiring 



niggas just failed a 520 point buttignment 
*project
smh lol
not i wtf
that's good to hear



he's so amazing
he's ight
*amazing
lol
you right



i'm staying single till college lol
yikessss thank gosh i don't have to deal with that cause i'd  go off
. like jesus can there be one nigga in virginia beach she ain't fw .
nah everyone knows her lmao
honestly 



do i call you? or do we resolve this quickly with 200 messages?
why can't i retweet this? 
try it again!
done. btw the answer is always 200 messages 
smh gosh do i miss the 90's. lol



woke up like 
go back 

don't look like that
 where tf you been light skin



*gets into an uber in costume*uber driver: " sorry i don't think i have any disney music"
i h8 uber drivers who are like this or ask weird about disneyland like stfu and drive me please
" it was a joke...i was just trying to break the ice" i literally do not want to talk i just want to go home
omg like when my uber asks me rly uncomfortable things about my job or complains about prices like.... shut the  screw up
look man im paying rn for you to drive me. im not going to complain about uber to u if i meet u at my work place so stop



hi we are going to disney world k love you 
still loves you 
you said christmas time !
but what days 
when are you off so we can have a lunch date 



well i got a $40 tip and then a $.30 tip just shows the high and low point of my day
man i got a .10 tip on sunday smh
rather just get 0! it's more embarrbutting to give a few cents
exactly it's crazy! work this morning?
yeah helping out mowing with our buddy!



2nd ever college all nighter is finna go down
update: this crap is butt
i'm closing in.
ill be cutting it close
starting the last one right now.



j'ai envie de domino's
make that call. pineapples tho
no chicken and feta on mine and pineapples on yours, we good?
as long as i can steal a slice because that sounds good
it's delicious, you should try it next time



"these chicks don't even know the name to my band"
i think everyone's all jealous and crap because i'm like the lead singer of the band dude
bro you the realist!!!!
bro slim was my favorite rapper growing up
yes!! that's all i listened too.



nba season starts tonight... give me your finals prediction. we will revisit in months.
no predictions until nfl is over
how about a 2nd round of prediction once nfl is over. gives you a "change your mind".
fine. cavs over spurs
spurs and cavs both looked pretty good last night.



don't think i'll ever get over 700 followers permanently. always lose one as soon as i do.
to be fair, 700 people is about 699 more than should actually be following me.
look on the bright side. when i was your age i had, like, 0 followers.
i don't think you had readily available internet either?
nope. no email either. cell phones were still a bit of a rarity.



to be here asap
uno more montho! 
hurryyyyy
i'm trying  don't pressure me
i know you are.



#hereiamwithher wondering how screwed up you have to be to vote for her just because she has a vagina.
it's more like because hillary has a brain in her head, unlike her opponent who needs to be, off to see the wizard..
according to wikileaks she's not to bright and that's coming from the ppl who work for her.
have you actually even gone to wikileaks or do you just read the edited and highlighted stuff they pbutt around twitter?
i've read them yes and that's lame to try to say it's edited. yesterday i read one where they needed to sober her up, lol



wish i had someone to carve a pumpkin with
ok nvm we won't do it.
you're going to one act play nerd
it gets me out of school. there's more days in the week but i see how u feel now
whatever



i'm scared to pick up my rabbit. someone help 
you didn't give it a bath did you? lol
lol i wanted to clean his feet ):
rip
 i googled it.



why is it so weird to listen to music that isnt rap or pop or edm
progresses a lot different and i noticed today listening to some jazz that that kind of music is able to change emotion and
them live and when a rapper cant even preform his music right live its like cmon mannn
best crap when they rap over their own words being played back
craps stoopid



this ticket is $69 but i've never taken the airline before so i'm not tryna die and stuff
to go home???
yeah
you lucky wtf
it's one way the round trip is like $400



i hate the person you wanna block but can't 
block em, unblock them then text em like "i miss u" then they really think you're crazy lmao
he mad i won't come back 
lol that's how it is
i'm like dang too bad i was alone i would've had a field day with that 



why can't i sleep
because youre wishing i was in town. its ok i feel the same haha
duh. get down here
i know!! if i can ever get a vacation im there in a heartbeat!
take one!



so sick of working nights, but trying to save as much as i can so i can get outta this crap town...






it's only 1 bruh
oh tru here it's 3



maybe i just feel hella tall cuz everybody in the bay are midgets 
nah not at all
for the most part
lol yea i see what you talking bout tho. i stand out everywhere lol
same especially on bart 



my ya lovelies...let's talk povs! do you prefer:
double pov is my one true love. i like both.
i love dual pov too! i should have made that an option!:)
that is my secret vote lol
i love it *sneaks in vote* :)



all i want to do is dance
waiting patiently for the next clbutt with ms. shannon.
it's coming i promise! we are finding space
bless up
you also could do the talent show for homecoming (;



so is wikileaks credible? can anyone say for sure? it seems like no one knows and what u believe is based on ur party
i don't think there is any evidence that they have doctored materials.
so wikileaks is sort of like snowden? if what they are saying is credible, honest liberal media should cover that too... yeah?
ny times with a huge cover story on new wikileaks today. not sure why you think the liberal media isn't covering?
ok today exactly they did, before this or no?



with all the chaos surrounding trump's loutishness and racism, the gop's actual policy platform seems to have been set aside this election.
but lest we forget, the gop's policy platform is still absolutely terrible. exhibit a: the #russellamendment.
several months ago, the house gop added this amendment, a "religious liberty" clause, into their version of the national defense bill.
the amendment's author, rep. steve russell, and its supporters, bill it as preventing military chaplains from violating their conscience.
i guess that war doesn't violate their consciences; not the religious figures i know.



my baby cousin is 15 and be netflix and chilling and babygirl over here can't even get a text back!
ramis putting in work 
ramis needs to show me what he is doing
it's those single cab trucks 
 not at all



since jade is coffeebabe98 am i bbypeachtea95
i like
since we both babes we should just be #bbybabe lmao
nevermind i clicked it and i'm horrified at what i see
omg so many jejemons



i feel like nobody has posted in the clo/08 group sense i made that post 
lmao you're they haven't 
lol that was #sodondre
u probably just said everything that ppl were already thinking. if they do meet up it's gonna be a big phony butt gathering
exactly



eat or sleep somebody help
always eat then sleep
great minds think alike
miss you bro i'll see you soon
for sure!! we gotta turn up again soon!



it's so much i wish i could do to help change the usa, but i don't want a job in politics.
accept the call
i can't do politics...  i just can't.
lol i would lay an excerpt on you but its too late for all that
tell me in the am then. it's always good to hear people's opinion.



fourth, qpf amount. think 1-2" covers it. could see a few higher amounts midcoast w/secondary low. slightly lower amts possible n mountains.
that should put a nail in the drought for many locations. precip still below normal but not drought level i'd think.
sadly not. we'd need the next 2-3 months to replenish all the water. 3yr deficits 12"+. a step in the right direction though!
3 year deficit? not in my part of maine. i'm not aware of any part of maine in a 3 year drought. it's well less than a year here
in the last three years here in the foothills where i'm at, qpf has averaged much above average. very wet till last winter.



would tweet more, at least half of what i natter on about regarding politics or pop culture comes because she challenges me
what have i done now?
nothing. you are generally wonderful and i wish you tweeted more. the world needs more kiki !
just haven't felt i had anything worthwhile to contribute lately. sorry.
piffle, i spend half my time tweeting things you made me think about.



dad: do you think i'm an butthole? me: wtf??? where did that question even come from? no. lol #mydadisweird #justdadthings  #sorandom
he probably asked u cuase someone must have told him he was acting like 1. so now he's like hmm . thats what i do sometimes
i think it's cuz i'm always yelling at him it's cuz he always thinks i'm lying to him. he hates when i go out. and i go out a lot
well thats what happens when ur a single gal. wat does he expect for u to stay trapped in the house
haha i guess. like i went to a concert last night, and he didn't believe me cuz it was on a monday hahaha  i had to show proof



agents of shield is possibly one of the worst marvel tv shows i've ever seen honestly the plot is boring and messy
not to mention overly heteronormative !!!
i never started watching it. now i'm glad.
its a waste of time! there are far better shows out there to watch
tbh, before it even started airing, the trailers i saw for it just never caught my interest.



came home to green posole thanks to mom 
dang i bet your mom gets down 
yes she's a great cook thanks to gosh lol 
next time she makes some invite me over for dinner lol
okay des, will do 



gone get that fixed n tell some others.
my crap ain't gonna be fixed by then! when is it anyway?
thurs
working late and bike still down
injustice.



morning! good ol' body clock still being a idiot. auntie's 'gently' snoring so the phaser is set to church mouse. luckily she's nearly deaf.
morning...
greetings from (what i expect will be) sunny philadelphia 
hope it is wonderful.
i'm sure it will be. 5c and nippy though 



fun fact: apparently alka seltzer night can trigger the symptoms of a panic attack, which are similar to the symptoms of a heart attack
-so you might end up calling 911 and having 7 police, firemen, and emts in your living room at 2:30am!
wooooooooow
uh huh 
i took some last night. never again



i just woke up from a nap a little bit ago and panicked bc idk why i woke up thinking i was late for work 
that's me when i sleep in on my day off

it's horrible i like get up so quick hahaha it's a trip
yeah seriously  it is!! hahaha



imagine potentially next season:qb: wentzrb: chubb/smallwoodwr1: jeffreyslot: matthewswr3: green-beckhamte: ertz/celek
ol of johnson, barbre, drafted c, brooks, big v
u forgot about huff
kick returner
and wr



perpetually more of frontend community happenings seems deliberately engineered to intimidate the outsider, and push out the non-obsessive
the real face of progress in frontend dev would be that everyones job would get easier, less cognitive load
the exact opposite is happening. all your frameworks are abject disasters. your cute names for permutations of shims or whatever are insane
not really sure how to end this, but knock that crap off. this would be a great year for everyone to come to their dang senses
chris i think your time machine dropped you off in the wrong year



6 am. trucks not gonna work on itself
if your going to dumont i want a ride in it
glamis is where it's at!
dang lol
haha yeah, that's where everyone goes.



i love you too

what ?
who you love?
my friend



if u come across someone u know well enough on tinder is it alright to platonically swipe right
yes
ok good bc i overthink tinder 2 much
back when i used to have it, i'd find people i knew and send them gifs of dogs
now this is what tinder should really b used for



this is the type of person david is:
me, as i walk around the apartment: "i think my back is broken!"david: "adi, no, you can't be serious...if your back was actually broken
u wouldnt be able to walk. u would be screaming. you do know that, right? i just need you to understand that ur back isn't actually broken."
i honestly don't think he understands that people sometimes say stuff that's not meant to be taken literally...he just doesn't get it
shallow thinking or autism



parents who smoke marijuana, what age(s) do your kids have to be for you to 1, accept their marijuana use, and 2, smoke it with them?
not a parent, but i'm happy i didn't till college
i was seeing phish before i smoked, think that had more impact than peer pressure ever did in middle school.
same only allman bros and ratdog
i saw rat dog once.



the suggestions people give for deadpool 2... and even from filmmakers... i'm starting to think everyone is doing a bit.
neveldine/taylor? too on the nose?
that actually would make sense, if they still were a team.
crap, i didnt know they split. bummer.
that one still makes more sense than anything i've heard.



we were literally seconds from leaving the house when it was revealed that jake was wearing two pairs of undies, which caused a delay.
he couldn't just wear both pair?
it wasn't comfortable- " i just feel too puffy."
well you wouldn't want to be too puffy at school.
the last thing i need is call from school that he peed his pants because he couldn't get his jeans off



how r u gonna rt my tweet but not follow me  our friendship is over
lol i thought i was following you already
nah
stop
u know i'm just kiddddddin 



wore sweats to the gas station and as i was entering my pin code at the cash register idk if she was tryna see the print or guess my pin.
gray sweats?
yea
lol no dang wonder
i guess lol



i woke up 3x in the night to get more blankets. starting to think the best place for my bed is not underneath my poorly insulated window.
heat blanket!
they're dangerous 
kristina has one! they auto shut off after 4 hours
i had an old one &amp; pbutted out with it on &amp; it burned my sheets &amp; my ankle i had to have grafting &amp; still don't have feeling there.



lost 3 out of the 5 dogs i'm dog sitting &amp; i've literally been out on a mission searching for them &amp; i finally got them all

it's funny now but i was about to cry my butt off earlier 
lol u missed ur dogs??
they aren't my dogs.. it's a couple that's on their honeymoon lol



winter will be here soon is your car ready for winter? tsaunders.ca i will help you get it done,rust proof/winter tires etc
tracy, i'm looking for some deals on winter tires on rims and installation for my 2015 chevy traverse.
i can certainly help can you send me an email with your vin and i will take care of you x
sure thing. thanks :)
my pleasure have a great day



someone came to my apartment and tried to roast me for having a dual vcr/dvd player . haters .
where you buy that mf though
lmao i've had it for years
dang that crap part of the family at this point lmao
right ! lol never letting gon



i must be getting old if i start getting upset about seeing someone in the "15 items or less line" and they clearly have 16 items.
this is me
these young kids who do they think they are?
dang hooligans
bunch of rapscallions.



my bye week hell is finally upon me...
hopefully youre up on that waiver wire haha
waiting to see what picks go through now
ty montgomery could be a good pickup, and if youre in a ppr league cole beasley is good too
both are already spoken for, but i appreciate the effort haha






no i dont 
boy .....
wym i stop lol
nada. dude if it's like this on halloween i ain't going out



we asked my aunt from switzerland to bring us argeta and she brought us 5 bags of vegeta... #bosnianprobs
bring some to seattle, we'll be hungry after cvija hahahahahahahahahahah i'll bring some kifle 
kifle and vegeta... sounds so appetizing yum can't wait
ybuttsss after party at selmas room wit argeta and kifle!!!
dude she brought vegeta not argeta  i wish i had some argeta



i really want sushi
at 8am? ...odd...
i'm always craving sushi so yes it is a little odd 
i'm always craving a donut...is that the same?
never a bad time for a donut



why did brandon lee and heath ledger have to die....
brandon lee is the saddest death ever tho, fact! literally died to make the movie, way sadder than heath although still tragic
his poor mom ugh
it makes me so upset that they wanna remake it. his performance is a+ and it's just a perfect movie and shouldn't be touched
i know. i refuse to pay any mind to any remakes



listen #leafsnation matthews,nylander,marner,our d etc... are all gonna take time to get better,this is a process,be patient #tmltalk
if we want to support kids we'll go watch junior hockeysame old story... suck it up buttercups and ice a team
if you think that we're somehow just supposed to be a contender because we drafted matthews you're surely mistaken man
i don't think... i absolutely know, without a goalie, the team is nothing. anyone who thinks otherwise isn't up to speed
obviously having a goalie is the biggest need for a team to be successful not sure how u possibly got that i don't get that



wow twitter was getting wild there for a second lol
....yeah
why are you up so late cocaine frowny face ?
lmao erin. i'm a frowny face. made out of cocaine.hahahaha i don't sleep.
oh yeah ... 



honestly probably jinxed myself bc i bought the tickets before getting my schedule for next week and w my luck id get scheduled to work 
but i had to buy them before prices went up:( see my dilemma
what tickets
kanye!
omg noi'll work for you



did you transfer :(
kinda, i took a year off and just started applying for a transfer
 i miss you. okay that was random but i totally understand.
haha i miss you too but yeah au wasnt the right fit
you have to comeback and visit one weekend though  where are you thinking about going if you don't mind me asking.



my physics midterm is tmrw and my prof spent all lecture (review day) on a book problem, then tells us "but i wouldn't put this on the test"
just remember f=ma
lol if only it was that easy 
just wait till you get to dynamics
lol i'm looking forward to it 



off to work..
"welcome to walmart" 
not funny steve!
99% of people only shop it's the 1% who deliver there and know exactly how they treat their venders !! #pisspoor
you nailed it on that one!!



why am i so full of energy right now ?
honestly it's too early
girl i've been up since 0330 and i'm an hour behind 
holyshiiiiii yooo
gotta love the navy lmao 



wow, i'm totally seeing an argument against rental properties using a strawman.
more info, please??
i'll talk to you about it
ok!
i will let you know that the appeal was denied and the zoning administrators decision was upheld. we do expect it to be...



anyways back to crap that matters. i really want toast, but got no toaster.. ya feel?
i have a toaster but no bread. or butter. i am cryin
we must combine resources to achieve a common goal.
sry i am only accepting burritos w extra guac or fried rice at this time
you and your burritos. :v



i'm gonna go home and make cupcakes
we didn't take on walmart at 12am just so i couldn't have a cupcake
come to my house then (:
but i've got school now tooooooooooo
probably not gonna make them until like 3 anyways bc sleep



i miss mommy 
i miss u too honey

dm or text me ur fan mail addy so i can send u and ur roomies a lil sumthn sumthn
no no no not necessary at all



yo do you, sarah and nicole  screw with jger??
pretty sure yeah, want me to buy jager? and u got heem?
yeee let's do that, i already got 2 bottles of heem. just curious if the girls would be down for jger bombs!
yeeee hella down #litboosf
aaaaaaaaaaw yeeaaaaaah. i got the cola just grab some monsters for the jger bombs



jerry seinfeld is coming to seattle and im just now finding out about this???? asdf;hjaf;oiwja
seinfeld song is my ringtone my alarm tone my notif tone can we go see him pls
crap i had that as my ringtone at one point hahaaha i tried to get my dad to go w me but the tix were hella expensive 
aw omg how much
like 145 for balcony :/ sorry jerry i love u and everything but that's 2 much :(



me and kim about to  screw crap up if we work at dos gringos together lol
y'all finna  screw around and get each other fired lmao
hell nah. we bout to make more money together
well time shall tell
money will show you shiiii 



feels good to have my beamer back
but what about your bimmer?
beamer and bimmer mean the same thing
i'm just messing with you frank, lol
dang you got my butt



if i ever tweet about flamehopper's stream after today just remember kenny put me on
yo that's that dude that juggles fruit!
yup that guys the crap!
he is! and he's actually pretty  screwin good at the game too
he really doesnt miss



yo man said pog-central-back? smh
szn 3 mou in full effect
crap is bizarre
just hope we get this w today
crap what time est?



what's the worst part about your period? (dm if you're shy)
the feeling when you stand up after being sat down for a while 
you mean the nervous feeling or cramps?
the nervous feeling that you know it's all gonna come out when you stand up lol sorry for gross details 
no way don't be! i feel the exact same way just wanted to make sure!!! thank you 



im hella disappointed in myself
don't be so hard on yourself
i didn't finish the essay
the one you were talking about all week?
yes exactly smh



as i get drunk off baker's bourbon. no nothing still beats it other than bookers
i was just thinking i should finally tell you the plan! :b wait until you to y slaughter house bourbon tho it's faster stuff
i did. this schedule is bleh
days off in the literal middle of the week seems to friggin weird............
man id so move over there and learn a food truck



who got wheels, im tryna smoke 
buy a leaf and i'll match
you in wheels?
yea
im good for it



thanks for forgetting to put sausage on my sausage egg and cheese mcgriddle.  who would order an egg and cheese mcgriddle...
i order egg and cheese mcgriddles all the time 
is that even on the menu?????
i don't know. maybe i'm just being complicated #nowihaveacomplex
complicated and causing screw ups like this one you psycho



and i dnt ever shoot my shot smh
buster.
buster douglas smh
u too old to be shy trell
kuz when u hit a certain age it goes away? lol that's an interesting train of thought



just watched a dude with phimosis penis cum all over a judy hopps mcdonalds toy
upvote
actually, i did see it on reddit and i did upvote the op, who also was the phimosis man in the video
wow epic
yup yup



but if you asked me to choose gsw over the field for the title i'm not sure i'd do that anymore. definite defensive issues.
after one of playing together? lol
i didn't say they stink...said i'd take the field over them. not unreasonable
no. but to say they have definite defensive issues after 4 quarters might be pushing it.
i think its more roster makeup. only reliable true big might be zaza.



rainy morning here in west michigan today!!
it was supposed to be doing that here i was all ready to go fishing and i walked outside to no clouds and high sky !
get on it.. trust me you won't melt, your not that sweet!!
i love fishing in the rain but today there are no clouds at all as usual the weatherman was wrong again !! 
they are never right, you should know that!!



midterm #7 today

learn how to find the limiting reagent little boy.
easy work.
false



if u have heard a rumor about me pls ask ask me if its true before you start spreading it because odds are its not lmfao
there's a rumor about you sleeping with me is that true
it's true
well gee fuhchen i thought u were gay 
not for you



i literally get so annoyed doing the fafsa because my parent's income literally has nothing to do with me. i get $0 from them.
file as an independent shawty
i didn't know you could even do that???
i mean i would buttume... it's an option when doing your taxes so i would think it was the same
my parents still claim me on their income tax so they can reap the benefits. lol even though i'm 19 and don't even live there



i sat next to a really cute boy and hopefully he gets the hint i wanna marry him.i also hope he doesn't follow me on twitter
update: we matched on tinder but haven't talked yet. he makes me really nervous and sweaty
update: we made serious eye contact today and basically had like eye sex. we're literally gonna date soon #waitonit
today is the day he realizes he is in love with me...just wait on it guys
i h8 you



let's go indians #cityofchampions
you would cheer for a team you have only liked for 2 years over your 82yr grandfather's cubs winning one in his lifetime 
i win either way, plus he has been a reds fan for 40years
diehard cubs fans hate the white sox
i'm not a diehard indians fan



man i always forget what a fun take tucker and dale vs evil is on the hillbilly slasher film.
it is quite a gem
i think that and "behind the mask: the rise of leslie vernon" are the best alternate takes on horror flicks
i have no idea what that other one is but you're giving it a high bar by grouping it with tucker and dale. i should watch it
definitely check it out it's fun.



can i get off work now? i need to go home and prepare.
what does this mean? it's so cryptic.. are you murdering someone or what?
a hot butt tinder date that's what 
ooooh girl get it!
ooooo you know imma get a lot



o yes i forgot to mention that i have pumpkin scented perfume can i finally transform into a pumpkin now
you will transcend beyond your physical body and become one with the pumpkin.
gosh i would love that
ill roll you around work "lets go olivia, time to get back"
it's times like these where i wish i had artistic abilities



f/a
nah imagine

blank tweet
what? lol



and tiff. 
you too
not like i worked there or anything
okay listen i wasn't follwing y'all
we all know i was grounded half the summer too and didn't have any social media or snapchat or even a phone to follow you 



so freakin bored
come to tempe 
be there by sunrise 
i'll have breakfast waiting for you 
how do u say no to that #youdont



game to attend air supply concert in winston salem!
i will punch that card in exchange for the tickets! otherwise #fuhgeddaboudit
which tickets would you want, air supply or the dawgs? i can help you with the latter!
#deal. thanks
my pleasure! but you've gotta holler!!



todava ni presento y ya reprob
esa es la actitud!!!
ya sabes aqu con todooo 
pngase a estudiar mejorrr
no tkhsss



i'm not ready to be 20.
so far it's not that bad i promise!
i feel like i can't handle the pressure of adulting 
you and me both
twinsies. also, i miss seeing ya around on the daily :/



kawhi got 35pts and 5stl against the "best basketball team ever buttembled" but it's cool i'm cool
as much as i hate the spurs i appreciate y'all for last night. but now y'all got kawi in the mvp talks 
kawhi*
he finished second in voting last year dog get with the times
he did i'm trippin



i just opened julios link and my phone called freaking 911 a million times and barely paused long enough for me to turn my phone off
i  screwing did it too
i was so pissed lmao i thought my phone was done forever
they  screwing picked up too, i'm done
really? mine kept saying the line was busy



which is really  screwed and scary
you mean irl or in the show
irl
i think it's weird to use an anime to make your point but i agree with it nevertheless
well, it came out before use of unarmed drones was in such high quantities so it was more like  screw this actually happened



i need calvin and hobbes cartoon books
same omg that just gave me christmas ideas lol
oh crap. christmas is coming i had them when i was little but they were lost
aww man that stinks they're literally the best i can read them all day everyday
same



i can't put the words together to correctly express the feels i'm feeling in this hot tub right now. like, uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...
don't drop the phone. you'll get electrocuted.
only if it's plugged in?
i have no idea. it's water and electricity, i buttume. just be safe.
water resistant. i have meters. but thank you! 



i should be asleep but instead i'm up playing jet set radio future.
bro that's dope as hell!
yeah man this was my favorite game as a kid, i recently found it at goodwill for like two bucks! i had to cop it
that's dope man. i'm bouta go to zia records sometime this week and cop another n64 since i found my cartridges.
that's dope as hell! hopefully you can find one haha



it's only my second day at work and i already got a complaint about my uniform and makeup/hair from my first day. ouch.
"we're part of the high fashion industry and we need our employees to look like it."
ouch :/
they really expect me to come in at 9am in a full face of make up/hair down/dress/heels to mbuttage? n a h
who got the  screwin' time



thankful and blessed to do what i love! #hoops
coach where you been?? ain't seen ya on here in a while!
busy! how are you?
lol. i understand that!! i'm alright. just trudging along. i know you're stoked your season is here!!
i am! next weekend!



i hate when i'm out somewhere and i introduce myself to someone and they're like "yeah dude, we met each other before" smfh i suck hahah
yo this one time i introduced myself to my coworker &amp; she was like "we've met before, i was in your clbutt" i was like ohcrap fr?!
and then she goes "yeah um i sat next to you the entire semester" 
other homie and was like "dude i have no idea who tf that was" hahahahah
how bad did you feel?!  people recognize me all the time and i'm like um who tf are you 



crazy #dreams. in one, there was a storm or flood. we were trapped in a home. three floors. neil armstrong and wife were there. didn't want
was he wearing his moon suit?
how are the free margaritas going?
just beer and wine last night. no signature cocktail
still nice perk at end of day.



who's up

you got a show to out on tomorrow wtf
you better watch
depends how lit



the doc i was referred to is going to give me a full hysterectomy and i might actually cry right here in the parking lot
go suck a dick, pcos. i win
this is awesome news!!!!?
very :)
*hugslot* that makes me so frigging happy for you!



emily takes a dose of dayquil the way i buttume someone does a shot of the most despicable rum ever concocted.
that's because dayquil is nasty
its not that bad.
true story: cough syrup isn't as bad as i remember because now i've had tequila and everything else is better by comparison
this is the whitest thing youve ever said



once you visit home for a few days you realize how much college *isn't* home. it's really hard not to feel isolated
don't worry, it will become your second home-which is almost equally as homey as home 
idk. it's more the people. my family is so close to me, they care about me so much, its a huge absence when i'm in sm

i have plenty of friends and relationships here, but it's not the same as family who are 100% always there



code gebutt but fight club
im in
welcome
i never finished cg it was such a trainwreck but it was good
it was so good



any updates from doc?
i'm avoiding them. am so ill most days don't have energy to learn the truth. scared &amp; in denial.
ah maryl! dang. get ur sorry butt back 2 the docs now. yeah always scary
you are the greatest friend, through thick &amp; thin. i'm giving myself time to accept what i might hear.
love u &amp; want u 2 go get it over with today. u raise my blood pressure.



"best of" party tonight? i'll be at the top of the stairs, greeting arrivals. make sure you say hi! #roc
did kate stathis win best circulation manager??
she has that title for life.
:-) tell her rachacha says "hi!"
will do.



yea i'm definitely coming home and falling asleep
vball party 
that's tomorrow i think?
u said wednesday
dang i meant thursday sorry



on dundas starting at 5  #yourewelcome
what
im working reach
dope i'm literally going to see you at 5 idiot 
be prepared for the huge wait !!!



have so many priceless memory's abs now he acts as if we've never met . . . . . .
woah, woah, woah lmaoo my nigga don't even. you fell off the planet !
bro remember that time at that  party i had i had white girls running around the house naked lmao
i peep you on my ig tl doing big things tho. eveyrthubg been going kosher ?
you know bro just laying low stacking cake.  just got back in philly where the  screw you been brozayyy lol



when you throwing another party 
probably this weekend
dang lmao throw one when i come back 
when's that? lol
november 28th - december 1st



don't got no regrets pulling that crash dummy stunt at work to watch the spurs game. i ain't mad at ya.
nah i  screwed big time otc
ima be on probation for awhile 
jose was all looking 4you in the drain, under pallets, in the fajita pit, in the lady's restroom, by the frog legs everywhere
crap i bet



that heart dropping moment you read about a murder on the same black as your parents live. then find out it was right next door.
i think you meant block.
when my phone is racist. 
all jokes aside, is your family okay?
yeah they are. you just never think about that stuff hitting home. i'm trying to get my fam out of topeka.



 i shoulda went to gsu man.
nah

they lit. but vsu be lit asf !
i just want the dining hall food



talk to me about your fav films.
: blade runner (1982) made me fall in love with filmmaking, and got me interested in genres, special effects and set design.
adding it to my watchlist. i'm sure i watched it as a tot but i don't remember.
: watch the final/directors cut version.
noted!



good morning
good morning sir...time to tie this crap up tonight
clock will move slowly all day
let us pray for good jake tonight lol
i know. need him to be under control



on her tattoo 
lol! go take a nap.
i'm only napping if you nap with me!

i see you like my idea!!! 



hard to believe usa today has article with the title about cleveland is the new city of champions. guess expectations are lower these days
the teams are great this year, the city...not so much.
just not sure 1 championship justifies a new title for a city
just another hot take from the instant gratification generation.   what's your take on millers use in playoffs?  over use?
nope. he is doing what needs to be done to win games. that's what a professional gets paid for and what he loves to do



i'm about to say something here about #parenting and #life and you might have to stick with me for a minute.
i've been having some mental health issues since nola was born and you could say i'm not living my best life.
but nola is a "perfect" child. not really i know, but she's smart and cute and everyone immediately falls in love with her.
and i want her to look cute in her clothes because i don't.
yup. i def get this. luckily oliver still lets me choose his clothes but i hear girls are different



hey do you live near the beach?
nearest beach is about 30-45 mins what's up
can me and my gf stay at your house in the summer, we might go to cali for vacation for 2-3 days
yeah for sure man lol but you sure you wanna visit my area? la is a lot better for beaches
i wanna save money on hotels 



have multiple text fields? no problem. texttile got your back. :)
can we use it? it looks super useful.
yes.. go to texttile.io we just loaded the vispub data this morning.
sweet. thanks! btw, let us know if you need help with the vega/vega-lite integration :-d
sure thing. thanks for offering your help. :)



i was texting a girl the other day askin what music she likes and the artists. idiot gon tell me hip hop rap list two people n said idk
i've asked girls their favorite dates or ideas for things they like and dudes draw up blanks lmfaoo how i know if we compatible ??
gimme a chance, i know what i like lol
nope we better off as friends lol
lmaoo that's true



can't wait for this weekend
see ya there 
plz slap yoself
whyyyy
you wont be there lmao



where are the gsw dick riders lmao
that were telling me they'd be better than they were last year
first game in the regular season and they played the best defensive team in the nba. lebron and the heat lost their 1st game
i understand that i'm not saying there season is done i'm just saying people were calling me dumb for saying they'll lose 18
their*



i got all my cousins in va on to a boogie. now they out here bumping this is what that jungle do, and we literally live in the jungle:
am i seeing you friday and saturday? 
nah sold my tickets lol
but but we miss you ! i'm about to sell my pizza zoo ticket
miss you guys too. my birthday should be a movie:



me &amp; borris were play fighting &amp; i accidentally punched him in the mouth 
that's not nice...
it wasn't my fault. he needs to stop play fighting with me 
don't get to serious cousin haha
i know. i felt bad 



any ideas for a cute girl halloween costume
i'm being a vampire! i have another vampire outfit that i was gonna wear last year that i never did and it would prolly fit u
so we twinning 
we can! lol just gotta get u some teeth i got blood and a choker for u too if u want
yaaay okay 



heres the thing i think i understand about why america isnt going to brexit: uk is 92% white. us is 64%, and shrinking every four years.
brexit didnt have a gendered component that would reasonably skew a vote difference. all of american politics does. every last race.
the reality is, liberals have won 5 of last 6 popular vote elections because we are not archie bunkers country anymore. and haven't been.
to someone like trump, is a reaction to something that's already happened.
100%. white males can scream loudly on their way down but they're still falling into the abyss. meanwhile i'm ::dark pdudenix gif::



i just desperately wrote "iced vanilla chai" in tiny handwriting on a post-it note at work.
where's ur fav chai from for me it's the nordstrom cafe
i'm a dumb lil chai noob and all i've had is store brands and starbucks! i need to go to nordstrom stat 
i like starbucks too but nc is like french kissing a cinnamon stick!!!
attn: tweet-up at the nordstrom cafe/everyone must order chai/everyone must french kiss a cinnamon stick



sorry to ask something so grim but how would you translate    ?
i went for "cure". hmu if you have better.
"to kill with kindness"? (i.e., offering a shower with the disguised goal of beating your foe, etc.)
do you realise quote is about gas chambers?
yes. "cure with gas chamber"--what do you think the irony refers to (buttuming in this context not an actual gas chamber)?



i really want to shave my head again and get a tattoo right on my head!
no
no!?
don't tell me you did it
nooo...... lol



you can't miss your opportunities 
never
oh look you're still awake
barely
why don't you go to sleep?



kyrie gone lead the league in scoring this year watch
nope,
watch.
clock
wrist....... watch



i peeled the skin from my lip
jesus that sounds painful
it is 
what happened??ima send some chap stick your way lol
i just have a habit of bitting it i don't know why



wow, i'm totally seeing an argument against rental properties using a strawman.
more info, please??
i'll talk to you about it
ok!
...appealed to the circuit court, however (we think that's what the plan was to begin with).



as i get drunk off baker's bourbon. no nothing still beats it other than bookers
i was just thinking i should finally tell you the plan! :b wait until you to y slaughter house bourbon tho it's faster stuff
i did. this schedule is bleh
days off in the literal middle of the week seems to friggin weird............
thats what i get for dealing with tards instead of food



someone wants to trade irvin to atl for a 7th rd pick? what?! you sound like someone who goes 1-16 on madden franchise mode...
don't rip on him to hard raider brother.
i just don't understand the logic... or should i say the lack of logic
fandom can be myopic &amp; not logical at times raider brother. we all want to win so bad that we don't always think straight.
you got that right



pharrell's collab w/ adidas on these nmds are decent, but $340 fam? skrt skrt !
that is the human race???
yeahhh, you like em?
of course i fall in love with the nmd's... never worn a pair of sdudes so comfortable... i need more
they look decent fr fr. i'm tryna cop a pair, but the sdude stores don't have the colorways i like. 



who wants to go watch some wrestling with me tomorrow (thursday)?
where and when?!
msu at 6p
hmmm 
let me know  it's free. it's their intrasquad meet. going to be nosey 




fureals i missed you 
i know me too 
well glad we hung out g i love you bro goodnight 
me too we need to kick it more like the old times ! &amp; love u too , good night.



imagine,the next dome in 4 years #optimisticmood
maybe by then we can go lmaooooooooooo
yesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
sets goals lmaooooooooooooooooooo has a savings fund saving up until then lmao
see you there /goes to work hard and save up/ lol



it might be time to turn the heat on soon #holdingout #imisssummer
it might finally be time to close the bedroom window. #imisssummer
it might be time to take out the ac #imisssummer
it might be time to close the swimming pool #imisssummer
it might finally be time to put on pants. #holdingout #imisssummer



just figured out my skin type. (it's combination)
how how
bro i've been watching makeup tutorials all month. idk if u wanna do that lmao
no i just wanna put my dang skin type in my health app 
well i have an oily t zone and then patches of dry skin on like my cheek in the winter



i wonder if swift is important part of apple's car work. the stability concerns make a lot of sense for mission critical systems like cars.
ergg, skeptical of this one. many mission-critical systems are written in c or similar.
swift itself ain't that stable.
i don't think the programming language is the utmost concern with problems like these.
and  i'd be surprised if apple was using swift for anything like that at this point given how the syntax continues to change.



on my way to new york to meet loads of friends and colleagues #abct2016 &amp; celebrate #abct50lucky, lucky me 
. see you there!
when you arriving?
setting off now. arrive tonight
see you later then.



honestly this month break of not playing shows and staying in making music has been so  screwing awesome and productive v much needed
same dude. i was bummed i had no gigs for a min, but it's actually hella valuable studio and chill time
i think i chilled to hard i forgot i djayed lol
good lol
i'm excited to hit the stage on thursday :)



it's great to see you rooting for the team with the dh.
hatred for the cubs &gt; dh
the bucs seem to need one when they play the cubs
the cubs won 103 games. every team needed a dh against them. your twins had a dh and won 59 games
even cleveland o stat master



upset that the suns and thunder have 8 combined games on national tv and the warriors alone have 30
bc they suck get over it
we don't even know if we suck yet we haven't played a game!
well if history repeats itself then yeah
to be fair the thunder did make the playoffs last year 



cool, not sure if i can recover roachie and soltians fics i was working on. the universe is angry at my sept bday friends. sigh.
it's ok the boner i got from talking about it is still real
no,i'm gonna get it. i just have to get the existing thing into gdocs but my ipad is being ugly abt that. you're getting it.
oh i'm getting it alright 
i'm pleased you knew what i meant



when a girl tries to talk baseball with ya and they don't understand that the world series is a series... lol there's more games 
tag em
@ kathy
she was on here phone last night
oh i'm aware



you can see so many stars here, it's beautiful. home is nice 
 screwin' stay there
i'm just kidding i love you 
i pet a disneyland kitten today!!! and tried to post it on my snap but my phone died 
wait do you have a pbutt now



think ima pick up that 7 plus this weekend 
you got  screwing money 
 tryna get like you
i'm tryna get like you!
you doing great



prayers for your dad!  and for you, as well! hugs!
thank you! family dynamics changed &amp; i'm now responsible for more of his care. i'm learning as i go.
i understand! i was my dad's caregiver for years. it's not an easy thing, but we do what we have to!
absolutely! (although if he continues to tell me how to drive, one of us won't be around long - kidding)
hahaha! mine would do the same thing. i would always throw the "you're the one that taught me" card..



wbuttup idiot
wbuttup stupid dumb idiot
what u tryna do idiot
 screw
okay i'll be over friday night



do you plan or go to halloween board game gatherings? if so, what games do you like to bring or play to celebrate?
we played betrayal and kill dr. lucky at our october meet up.
, great! how did you do? i haven't played either, but i've heard good things about both.
fun night. the heroes won betrayal-we had the new expansion cards but an old haunt. dr. lucky was killed-is that good?
, isn't that the point of the game?



58 min
dawg you got all the juice on fb lmao
they fwm on the book 
real crap . i be like dang kenzie gettin the likes up 
 got a big family



ciara is being called a dude for being pregnant by her husband ? lol the hell wrong with y'all . y'all value bf/gf relationships too much
you are the only one saying it
nah i don't see some ignorant folks man smh
no you haven't . show some tweets. you are just saying it
you just responded to someone that said she was lol



the car was parked tho lol they doing most over a pic
people always make a big deal girl.. especially on the internet
and it's sad they telling me what i should lmao you should have just got in the back
they told you to just sit in the back?  wth
yes i said but the car parked they said it don't matter the seat wrong  get in back for a pic



4:12 am
night owl lol
 work nigga 
easy money get that fool. liam keeping me up watching tv smh 
too easy bro lol i been writin raps all night &amp; gettin' paid couldn't have a better job fareal.



hey do you live near the beach?
nearest beach is about 30-45 mins what's up
can me and my gf stay at your house in the summer, we might go to cali for vacation for 2-3 days
yeah for sure man lol but you sure you wanna visit my area? la is a lot better for beaches
it's gonna be in the summer tho



i love using the exclamation point
wow this was very relevant to all our lives thank you!!!!!!!!!!
who is our?



you berkeley people are crazy!!!!!



i swear to gosh i would transfer back to tarleton state just to be close to peacocks!
it is not that good 
you're tripppin to the max rn 
no i just went there and they gave us packaged syrup ...... i'm out after that 
unpackaged syrup?



so ready to take my hair out
then take it out
can you paypal me $200 to get it redone then? thanks.
who you think you talking to?
clearly somebody who don't have $200 



if u don't know me or hang with me i feel bad for you bc i'm a great person and i'm funny af.
idiot where
idiot i miss u haven't seen you since that party lmao
aye round two this friday ;)
hit me up u know i'm down for whatever ayyy (;



does the matte black #iphone7 plus 256gb model actually exist or is it just a rumor? and if so, where the f**k can you find them!?
i don't know, but don't ever change. 
how do you mean dont change?
you get cranky about the same kind of stuff i do.  cracks me up.
so, will we ever see them? or even the 128gbs?



someone come hang and finish these beers w me
dude buttsssssssssssssssssss
i bought a six pack on the way home u said u had to go home foo
true but stilll !!
ayy you could come haha



wooohoooo!!
i totally forgot!  what time does it start again?
it starts at 8! 
hopefully i can find a babysitter! i'll let you kno.
to babysit lmao.



literally have never been more annoyed.
miss you. cheer up, buttercup
ughhh  i miss you too! i wanna go catch pokmon like we used to!! 
next time i'm in mhk we're catching hella pokemon.
pinky promise?



when i go clothes shopping for work.
idk if you've considered/learned about this yet but there are also clear retainer studs you can wear
i've thought about that, but my piercing is so new. it could close up instantly if i take it out. got pierced late september
oh that is still pretty new. you'll figure something out, hopefully to where you can keep it! sorry i couldn't offer more help
of course! i've looked up online tips on how to conceal a nose ring using makeup. i'll be ok. 



this sucks. all of this.
i'll fight you


wow y u gotta hit a girl man ?



procrastination stresses me out. idk how she does it
i can teach you my ways 
i like feeling not stressed and i think brenda would rather not you teach anyone that 
brenda wants to kill me when i tell her how much i procrastinate 
&amp; me. 



watched a documentary on the life of a seahorse earlier and now i'm watching this short film on yellowstone national park. crap is good
remember i said i was a seahorse miss tina
no you're a squid
and you're a sardine
at least i'm light skinned



nothing to see here, just moving across the country in 32 hours, not freaking out or anything
*tears* sooo much ramen in your future
i gotta open up my chopped cheese cart stat, post up outside sneaker lineups and get rich
bruh!!!! straight collect, half of harlem might hate you for bringing chopped cheeses out west but  screw it!!! get rich!
hahaha they gonna hate me back east but all the harlem cats that moved to la gon love me lol



wish val liked backwoods 
bring me a backwood 
bring me a wood dude
scoop i'll shmoke a wood
my mom went in a ditch 



bree got raped txtn me
girl don't do the most, bet you won't get another text!
bet idc 
you ain't got too.
gimmie kiss



i'm too  screwing uneducated about it though i don't know how to make my own crap or anything
ur hot
unhelpful
what kinda music u wanna make like singing or some crap
i wanna try a lot of other things. singing to my own music would be cool but i'm trying to start with just a beat first



good luck to all our basketball coaches and players this season, 1st day of our season begins today 
good luck this season coach 
thanks gonna need it!
you have a good staff and a good group of kids. stay on them and y'all will be fine this season
thanks for the , they do a good job



i came to life when i first kissed you, the best thing has his arms around me. you make me better than i was before..thank gosh, i'm yours 
and i were sang this song by russell dickerson himself. 
omg!!! no girl! please tell soon! 
i've got pictures and video to prove it  best. night. ever.
i'm sure!!  i'm beyond jealous



shouldn't have left my bed to come to clbutt

bro idk what's going on
im here now all that matters
oh wow makes me feel better 



yo
what man
s
you cant be this childish
how mad are you lol



i love being a spurs fan
warriors need some rim protection or it's gonna be a short postseason bro.. i know you're loving simmons. where he come from??
juco and the d league! ya i've been saying they defense and bench are trouble. nobody listened...spurs looked fresh and excited
i think they're bench is fine they just have zero rim protection. like it's sad
true that but i'm ok with it as long as the spurs are playing like that 



hacks helming them aside, why are studios greenlighting adaptations of video-game franchises that are far past their peak popularity?
i think games like uncharted or red dead redemption are great starting points for fun exercises in specific genres.
get the right director/writer to conjure up a fun story to tell within that genre, slap the title on and bam.
i'd be this optimistic if studios didn't think the right director/writer would be shawn  screwing levy
it's even more annoying knowing that joe carnahan wrote the script. potentially great script wasted on mediocre filmmaker.



ok boy. if you're going to sit with me at dinner, don't roast me the whole time plz. i'd rather eat alone. thx.
also. i accidentally flushed my sock down the toilet. what a day, guys. what. a. day.
umm wut
yeah. idk. my life. 
i'm sorry for your loss of foot wear



show me your favorite songs the ones that make you feel things.
bet dude. i'll show you mi corazon
i saw ahj this weekend and u woulda loved it
he's awesome huh?such a cool guy.
yes he was a lot more into than i thought he'd be. super good live



my thumb is throbbing in pain ..that cut was no joke, basically tore off the top layer of skin..good thing it wasn't much
i got cut last thursday a piece of steel sliced a chunk of meat off my hand lol
fuuuuck lol u get stitched up?
na there was nothing to stich so i'm just letting it heal lol
how bad was it, u got pics? lmao



i need a friend who'll help me practice my spanish #plz
puta
adios hombre
marijuana is spanish
thanks for da tip



wyd 
about to get some apple juice wby?


that's why your butt gone stay thirsty



love getting high alone sometimes. 
it's relaxing
omg i know it's great!
blazing by yourself and listening to music or watching a movie is great honestly there's no one to bug you!
oh yes! the best feeling ever



i'm about to say something here about #parenting and #life and you might have to stick with me for a minute.
i've been having some mental health issues since nola was born and you could say i'm not living my best life.
but nola is a "perfect" child. not really i know, but she's smart and cute and everyone immediately falls in love with her.
and i want her to look cute in her clothes because i don't.
people are gonna think she's cute no matter what. and learning to make those decisions is a developmental milestone!



hahahah i'm making money while u in school or at home eating crap u dumbbuttes
how much though
not much but it's better than 0
you are right but i am not a dumbbutt for going to school
na i meant if ur just wasting ur time at school doing nothing



came home to green posole thanks to mom 
omg save me some 
dude yes come and eat tomorrow even if i'm not here!
do you work tomorrow 
yes at both :-(



once you visit home for a few days you realize how much college *isn't* home. it's really hard not to feel isolated
don't worry, it will become your second home-which is almost equally as homey as home 
idk. it's more the people. my family is so close to me, they care about me so much, its a huge absence when i'm in sm

i mean it's not all bad it's a huge blessing i have that all. i guess i didn't realize how important distance to them was for me



after we trade for boogie straight to the finals 
false 
we bout to reclaim our thrown in the east
did you forget about who is still in the east ? 
can't forget him but his time is over



i'm the brokest nigga on twitter r didn't know you know about "broke"
broke people don't get cars. cars need maintenance and that equal money.
what car?
same one in your avi
it even my car smh just posing next to somebody car



rudy giuliani has really showed his true colors, dumb as a bag of rocks!!!
and your verdict is based on what evidence #truthmatrs
just by listening to his remarks and how he refuse to allow rational thoughts and statements to come out if his mouth
listening to his remarksyou can't argue that ccuomo would not let rjuliano answer a question w/o interruption #truthmatrs
chris wld correct him with facts, and to u and ur idiot candidate, i walked to store, got two loaves of bread, ddnt get shot



im tryna be patient for another  screwing hour but it's hhaaaarrrddd
can you believe ill be 17 wow
yes because seventeen comes after sixteen and you were born almost seventeen years ago
lmao i still feel like a child
your age do not determine your childlike nature, u can always be a child @ 



some folks on the right seem to be upset because i'm not name-calling and bashing megyn kelly. i like her. deal with it. 
you can like her just don't call her a real unbiased journalist
i don't think megyn kelly is biased. everyone on the right seems to think she is, but i don't see it. 
take off your rose colored glbutted and actually look...she's not only biases but very nasty
nah. not really.



i voted for perot, he was right about nafta &amp; so was i. why are some people  voting for trump? he isn't hillary, &amp; vice versa
i know many people who think both parties are just in it for themselves, thus they both suck of the teats of wall street.
to make matters even worse, you have pundits like joe &amp; the like create wedges, and offer opinions that have no substance.
made in the usa used 2 mean something, now all the manufacturing jobs are elsewhere. why? so corporate america can get more $
it's a global econ. forigen firms build plants in us. us builds plants overseas. been going on for decades



the amount of times i have pressed snooze today is embarrbutting
it's okay you deserve it
you're so cute 
love u
love you more 



"if you're making people awesome &amp; delivering value continuously, somehow people stop caring about estimates." - #modernagile
you're missing another qualifier: your competition sucks. we do the first two and need estimates constantly.
what for jay?
there's roi on all that we build. customers prioritize based on highest roi, which is impacted by build cost
yes, shipping highest roi fastest is the goal. build options &amp; their cost must be considered to hit that goal.



macos sierra lets you remap the esc key to another modifier key. whew. say gbye, caps lock :) #newmacbookpro
what?! no! how will you convey anger or excitement?!
use the shift key like a civilized person. only barbarians with poor manual dexterity use caps lock!
eh?
ie: hold down the shift key for words you want capitalized, instead of willy-nilly caps locking everything like a barbarian :)



the only reason they don't? they will not deviate from #theplan which includes trusting #hunter and his drafting. allow picks to develop.
if that isn't their plan, which i guarantee it is, then they are morons.  never have more cap room than the next 2 yrs..
wrong. mentality is to win every game right now. management controls the time frame. that mentality though is fragile.
when you have 3 all stars on ecls you have no better time to load up
i agree. insulate. but the retained salary sucks and why blow the cap on risky ufas that restrict paying the young studs



so why hasnt the us of a added pins the the credit chip cards
some do have the option, but it's rare. seen a couple of customers at work that have to pin with their chip cards.
its just, ever since i can rme we here, the credit card by default had the pin number same as the debit  which can be changed.
usa is weird. none of us understand it either.
oh well,  cant always be on top!



bruh, it's dumb cold today 
it's new york, it's always cold
not always though. it didn't start getting cold until this week. last week, i was out here wearing a dress, vibin in the 80s.
it felt like 80 cause you lightskin smh
smh  not even. i heard lightskin folks stay cold. and while we're on it, you only like a shade darker than me though 



reminding folks that megyn kelly is not any kind of feminist icon to woc. not with all that racism.
as i see white women throwing kelly's name out as someone to admire i wonder just how close to white supremacy some of you want to be.
kelly has had no problem excusing police brutality, pushing her own racist narratives onto kids, and generally being a terrible person.
kelly's conflict with trump will end. and she will be right there on fox supporting ryan's racist clbuttist policies. that's her job.
kelly's conflict with trump is in the script.



you busy bih?
nah doods i'm at mi casa con valeria chillin 
tell val que su tia says hi 
she said oh hey 
oh forreal val? das how you gone do me?



i'm so sleepy.
schleep
i would lol if it were that simple.
lmao cant just close ya eyes and count sheep?
i'm at the er. might put my head in my lap lol but that's the best i got.



i love my mother in law 

 daddy lumba's mom 
so it's on?
lol nah b, but we are cool 



good morning everybody! :d
morning~ ^^
good morning. how are you doing today?
doing good. it's night time over here though. xd
oh ok. i guess that's the magic of the internet haha glad your day went well!



how do you volunteer for the foundation if you live in canada? is it possible? i really wish i could help somehow.
thanks for the support margaret, why don't you hold an event or fundraiser - that way you can support our work from afar! x
that is a great idea! thanks for the reply. i will do my best to come up with something. talk to you again. xox
wonderful! thank you margaret, feel free to email us at fundraising.org for ideas or support x
lady sells and she said they do fundraisers. amazing scents!



thinking i might block off every friday for a month to mockup and dabble with new ideas.
in q1 of 2016 i did a new product build once a month in 24 hours. that was fun. team can't handle more product right now.
but would be fun to sketch, draw and scope all the random ideas i have. surely that would produce some tangental benefits somewhere else.
feel free to share them my way. you would like what i'm working on right now :)
tell me!! :)



nothing like my iphone going from 66% to 13% in 15 min..only took 1 pic &amp; texted hubby that i was at work. so tired of battery draining
is it an old phone?
it's a 6s! started draining battery before the ios 10 update. just weird today! an old one did it when it got too cold.
that is weird. and frustrating
very much so! and i charged it once i got to work. shot from 13% to 64% in mere seconds!



durham bound today
i need to make my way back to raleigh i miss it up there 
lol ive never been to raleigh
omg i want to come with bout to blow a grand at the malls i love it up there and prob gone get my second tat by the same dude
lol blow a grand? crap i wish i had that to blow



waking up like this never gets easier.
you need to come visit me. and take a break from susie
in january for the calfire academy.
calfire academy??? why have i not heard about this?
it's just like the structure academy, it's practically just a long clbutt. doesn't mean i'm hired anywhere



next time im home ill be at the usc track running if yall want these hands on the corps was up
wazzup man. pull up with dem dickzz
bro.... thats homosexual chill
sorry private
im hurt you



so, i'm in the middle of your wonderful #thisisus recap when you mentioned wanting to call home after a bama win &amp; girl me too!
roll tide! if toby had paused that a&amp;m game saturday, he would be dead now.
i was pbutted out in a cold medicine haze on saturday and missed the whole thing. did you go to ua?
yes! clbutt of 1995.
clbutt of 1993! speech comm major, theater minor, ra in tut and palmer. roll tide!



2 more days idiotes
 screwing lucky butt
youre not going?!?
no dude i wanted to do  screwing bad ! but i can't i need to save money lol everyone is telling me to go but to much money already
what am i gunna do without you



so any m43 shooters out there who are wondering if the helios 44-2 is worth it? it is. i lucked into a solid one. magical.
i picked up one. my favorite thing about it is the bokeh.
are you shooting on a full frame rig? 5dmkiii? i'm thinking of getting a focal reducer for my setup since it's a 118mm on my panny.
5d mk ii
so yeah full frame. man i wish the 4k on the mark 4 wasn't bollocks. i miss full frame.



trade everybody
go cavs
current favorite teams:1) cavs (go cavs)2) 76ers (gotta support my fellow shirley templer)3) okc (russ)4) clippers (i like them)19) gsw
for my followers who are considering leaving due to basketball coverage: soon i will also resume livetweeting my grocery store trips
book. book. we need book!!



hate staying up this late bc i always get hungry but too lazy to get up and eat.
make me something too while you're at it
what are wife's for
loving their man and making bomb butt sandwiches for sure
well i ended up eating a bag of goldfish



pooh ?
yes?
nvm i was out front of your crib last night 
wtf  why?
i was coming from my crib out there by yours 



anyone sell translation rights to their sel-published book?
was offered twice but didn't follow through
did they look legit and you didnt feel like a lawyer, or did they look scammy?
legit oreilly japan. and some guy via email for turkey i think.
ah. i got one from oreilly japan.  might talk to a lawyer, but no idea what the roi would be



time to watch #scream season 2
you'll be sooooo freaking on the edge of your seat
i seen the first season just not the 2 . it's already good 
you'll love it
finished all of scream season 2 dam i had a feeling it was him , but of course it's gonna continue lol



do people still play world of warcraft? like that sounds like such an iconic mid 2000s thing but it still exists???
remind me to tell you about my wow obsessed, mega loser of a cousin sometime 
how much good boy points does he have?
his rice score is hands down 100
jesus  screwing christ how is that even possible? my friend who is waiting till marriage for sex is at least a 72



okay i made up my mind...no more eating out for two weeks, and i'm saving all the money i can lmfao
u sure u been saying this smh lol
watch 
show me then 
i'm two weeks



hillary would be our 3rd black president if by "black president" u mean another president with a lot of black support doing nothing for them
over 90% of us aren't stupid for voting for hrc. we have a reason for voting the way we do. do u know why ur voting 4 trump
didn't say they were but this is the 3rdtime a large amount of black people voted4a president that couldn't care less about them
i agree....it's just that less than 5% who votes against their interest. 95% of us know what we're doing. #winning
continuing to supporting democrats and not getting anything out of it says otherwise



i seriously feel like one of my bffs hates me now 
wanna know who i hate?? benji. he peed on me.
sucks to be u 
i took him out of the kennel and he got all happy i carried him and he peed i threw his butt right back in
i forgot to warn you about that lmao. he just gets very excited!



please keep my dad in your prayers. 3rd time called down to the hospital this month, hoping this is the time the transplant finally happens.
surgery is on! please continue the prayers, now comes the long part! gosh is good.
i'm at the hospital. dad's surgery started around 2-3 am. please keep those prayers up for a tough 8-10 hour transplant. gosh is good.
praying so hard man! im happy for your family that he's finally getting the surgery he needs.
thank you so so much! we're praying hard down here!



its just cute couples on my tl now..... time 4 me to go, i don't belong
!!!!
cries bc lonely
can relate. ily 
love you most bb 



#worldseries
go tribe.
come on now!
1-0 baby. that's what i'm talking about. i hope they dont have to wait another 108 years, but i hope they do have to wait 1 more
i don't know! cleveland can't match the pitching depth that the cubs have and i'm hoping that's what tips the scales our way!



got my back on this one #inkmaster 
good thing he doesn't listen to dark matter yet ... "snacks up your butt ..."  (hope everything's ok though) 
yes he managed to blow the marble out of his nose. seriously almost crap my pants. 
good story &amp; btw todd &amp; dan need callers tonight ... 
crap forgot about the whole time difference crap 



good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ill see you tmrw!!!!!!
wait what raves are you doing this weekend
not the same raves as y'all but lauren said we were pregamning together and ur coming to the edm brunch



theoretically, lets say you have a companion, should it be controlled by the leader or act depending on the situation in the fight?
is this for bs? how's the combat work right now? i think that would be an important influence on the direction you take.
personally i don't find ai companions very fun or game-changing, they're often just... there.
it'd be cool to implement a coop mode w this feature though. not sure how accessible that'd be on the roblox platform tho.
if it's turned-based definitely buttume control. making it ai just creates another variable you can't control.



well i got a $40 tip and then a $.30 tip just shows the high and low point of my day
man i got a .10 tip on sunday smh
rather just get 0! it's more embarrbutting to give a few cents
exactly it's crazy! work this morning?
helping out mowing yeah with the our buddy!



you can't have a spirit of discernment without letting the holy spirit teach you on how to hear and how to see, both naturally&amp;spiritually
 you alonna, always with the positive messages
awww my girl!!!! thank you. it's always so good to hear encouragement 
of course. stay positive and you 
yes ma'am! love you sis 



i wish i have something longer term to look forward to??? i feel like i've essentially been going from place to place and everything felt
like it was a temporary stage towards something else and i hate it. i just want to find a place to settle down and be surrounded
by friends and people i love and be able to really go all out on what i want to do.
then i wanna go home, but i dont wanna leave vancouver because i feel like this is where i should be, but at the same time...
i hope sometime in the near future we will all be reunited again. we are still young and there's a lot to explore



when we not talking crap, that's how you know that's not normal
lmao. tbh.
there isn't a day where we don't talk crap. it's like a must every time we see each other.
always got crap to tell each other. i'm surprised u ain't tell me crap while you were in government 
he wasn't even there in clbutt lmao. i think they find out that he was skipping.



you can see so many stars here, it's beautiful. home is nice 
 screwin' stay there
i'm just kidding i love you 
i pet a disneyland kitten today!!! and tried to post it on my snap but my phone died 
that literally is the saddest ellen i could ever imagine oh my gosh



u down for a 2v2 chall??
after 2 1nds
ready?
my shot is awful we will play for 5 lmaoooo
okay link



them snipers be  screwin' me up in battlefield 1. i'm bout to get right though ...
how is it bro
it's great nothing less.
oh dang let me get that
yea, it's huge the game play. it's got everything, spend the money &amp; go premium. great dlc no lie.



i'm not ready for this episode fam
missed it sunday, and someone canceled my recording :)  i'm never up this late, but i'm staying up to watch replay at 3:30!
it's rough
started at 315.  20 minutes in and i'm already at a loss for words....
that...was disturbing.



i think i'm single idk tho
lol
i'm actually confused
how do you not know lol
bruh it's a long story but just know he ain't call back



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
and then that mouse had the nerve to try to eat our kibble!  let this be a lesson fur all the other mousies!  
well, that is just simply the limit! a lesson for sure! glad you made an example of him! rrrrrrrroar!



5:30am and the garbage truck slams the dumpster to the groundat the school across the street, won't miss that when we move
lol  garbage day here to an i live next to the school.  same. thing.
this happens every morning even in the summer when there is no school
yep and the windows are open an it scares the crap outta ya
and the twice a day traffic crap show with parents



before the army i was wild doing dumb crap in relationships now i'm just ready to settle down and enjoy life and adventure with somebody
respect bro! 
off rip bro 
proud of you too my g fr
i'm trying man i'm trying.. tryna stay above water &amp; focused until i'm where i need to be. proud of you to foo &amp; thats 



everyday i'm getting more and more sick of #facebook, considering how prolific it is, is it possible to truly disengage from that site?
i deleted my fb account over a year ago and havent looked back.
... maybe i just need to remove the app from my phone (no notifications) and just use the site once in a while &amp; keep the chat
yeah, i gradually weaned myself off of it over 6 months or so.
if i tried to drop twitter right now, though, id probably have a hard time with that



i usually listen to the local cleveland radio broadcast of indians games. feels like i won't want to listen to fox bcast.too much cubs slant
that would be joe buck.
i listened to tv crew some last night. buck was fine. went on and on abt lindor and kluber. he'll be unbearable in chicago.
the silver lining in cardinals not making playoffs was no buck.
buck lost me when he called that packers vikings game where randy moss fake mooned gb and he acted like moss killed someone



coworker asked me who will win more games? browns all season or tribe in the world series 
how did you answer?
let me just say tribe needs 4 wins that's all. browns might have a chance at 2 wins...maybe lol
i agree.
they want the #1 pick again for sure. and if they win any games it could lose them that pick (see hoyer)



, you suck. #comcastsucks
hello mari. i'd like to see what i can do to help you see the game.  please dm your acct# and i can see what i can do to help. -ql
too late. we went out and by the time we came back it was on. it was still a pita.
i apologize about that, are the services back to normal now? dp
well, yes, but that doesn't make up for having to scramble to find a place to watch the game.



didn't play any songs of #theblack :( i had expected they would play the ones that aren't about danny.
it was probably easier to go with songs danny knew the marks for already since they didn't have much time



will start playing songs from #theblack again because people love the songs. x
we love the old songs as well 



where are the chill butt nice dudes at?
was asking myself this today smh
i'm lucky if anyone talks to me at this point if i'm being honest with myself
girl me too!! i honestly find it hard to believe anyone's ever gonna wanna be w me like that
you're bomb as  screw tho like deadbutt i'm pretty sure some dude will come around ready to drop everything for you give it time



i just want to travel the world and make amazing memories. that's all.
come to australia
do not tempt me
no seriously, i'll be here probably until may!
might have to come for spring break



people wish i drew pokemon a lot more, and yet no one commissions them. i don't understand.
90 percent of the art i do has to be commission work to pay bills and such. i will gladly draw other things for money.
this! so many times people want to see more fan art of poke, but unless its a commission, its hard to fit in free art time
maybe i should put more pokemon examples on my commission example sheet.
thats an idea! i think i need to update my examples too



whyyyyyyy am i not in tokyo just whyyyyyyy
weep weep weeeeps
t_________t we'll need lots of tissue today.are you ready? :d lol
i'm really not i'm not gonna lie. /grabs so many tissues. we should start the tissue pile now huh?
yes.time for it let's goooooooo



guess who can't sleep
haha me too kill me
i've been laying in bed for over an hour lmao we got this
i have counted... so many sheep chelsea.
hahaha what sucks is i almost fell asleep when i laid down and then i just....didn't. and now i can't



ima really fight him
you better be talking bout someone else 
.... &amp; if im not?
im gonna be at your door step in 5 
not scared soo.... i'll be waiting to beat some butt



some dick just posted a major walking dead spoiler... sooo pissed.  screwkk youuuu 
what was it?
i'm not about to  screw it up for everyone else.
i wanna know but i don't at the same time lol
it's a given, but still uncalled for. hit that unfollow asap lol.



does anybody really like john lester? i'd really like the #cubs to win but he's a tough guy to root for. he's got a belichick  personality
cancer survivor, does a lot of work helping children's cancer research.  solid guy.
john lester?
jon lester.
got it. he's got a pbutt. pitched a good game. teammates let him down. bases loaded, zero runs. no hits with risp. only one game



how was your trip ?
it was incredible thanks, how did you know about it? lol
facebook and gigi
you need to watch our first video!
whats the link?



hey you go to nccu?
yes.
me too,  your cute ,what's your major?
thank you  &amp; criminal justice
me too lol , what's your number so we can keep in touch?



my ex taught me how ugly trusting people can get
nooooooo
dead butt
sucks! y'all seemed solid. that's life though, people change
lol i thought we were too



happy birthday!
dang jay, the plug like that bro
you want me to give you a lil shout out?
lmao put your boy on
you went sky diving?



please gosh don't listen to the song "entropy" while doing thermo hw it'll stress u out the chorus is "calculate the entropy" im not even
how's the pset this week
wrote a stressful physics song
i'm gonna check it out brb
 screwen warned u



wya broda
at the house man. wbuttup
i was trynna see if you trynna burn it. but you ain't in town :/
crap id be down but i just got back to the house lol i'd say slide but i know that's a mission
if you change your mind hit me lol i got 2 blunts



definitely didn't go to english to get an extra hour of sleep. yeah.
if you would have went to bed at the time you said. you would have been fine
also these cramps kicking my butt rn, feel like i'm being stabbed by all the ex friends i have.
lol dang girl take some pills!
i did!!!! the question is, when they gone kick in??? 



anything good on netflix i havent seen?
enter the void, charlie countryman (i have a bias towards shia labeouf), moonrise kingdom (beautiful movie, literally)
what kinda bias? lol
i just think he's a beautiful man haha. trainspotting, good will hunting, snow on tha bluff, the imitation game, american beauty
some of my favourites right there but ive never seen snow on the bluff, ill check it out



watching this tnt nba deal about race, such weak sauce, so out of touch of the legit issues of the movement, why bother then
like...what...is...the...point if you're giving one sided opinions?
can at least one of them talk about their experience about how they were fd with because of their race, they have stories
especially jim brown. they're not offering anything outside of typical victim/community blaming. this is solving nothing.
i have so much respect for him too, he is too old for this conversation



my tl is so dead coz none of my uk people are awake and active 
i am  lol how are you
i'm good! how are you?
that's what up! mi deh yah mon another day another dollar you know.
i hear you brother



broke my apple watch
what did you do?
lol idk tbh
oh  guess i don't need an apple watch then lmao
lol get one



looking for the dodgers game on my tv guide...
did you dvr it??
must have missed it... they play again soon right?
yeah yeah, they kick the season off in april!
oh the same time the orioles play again!! perf!!! i secretly miss you



this boy told me only niggas with lil dicks know about cars
i bet he himself has a small dick lol . like who says if u know this information u have a small dick. some1 who has no confidence
nah deadbutt though lol he's my nigga but like really????
yeah he sounds stupid af lol . whatever make he's joking lol
maybe *



i was told by a support person that support would be open today.
i'm so sorry! our phone support wasn't available yesterday. i'd be happy to help here on twitter if help is still needed! -pc
i reached support via phone yesterday. but, the skull known issue is affecting me.
were they able to buttist? if not, we'd be happy to buttist further via dm! please let me know! thanks-pc
no they weren't. apparently, engineers working known issue. hopefully resolved by thurs and al dept revenue will understand.



happy c-day my nigga 
my nigga big birdd crap fam thanks my dude that crap means a lot stay up out there g
boy i ain't know you ain't talking to me hunch back of norte dame
why you look like dr. doofenshmirtz tho ..
bruh i still got all the old craps and some new craps let's not start this roast



who eats tamales at 1 am in the middle of october?.... me 
omg tfti again 
my tia virginia made some on sunday you missed out homie
wow i always miss out on everything :(
they were just masa but still bomb haha



every girl needs sum chocolate in they life
that part 
true facts yo
i dig ur style lol
thank u



anyone think #obama gave away the internet hoping to silence #wikileaks ?#icann  thankful 4 truth  keep 'em coming!



so, they have the power, the control, and they've tried to silence #julian buttange .    just my thoughts. 



i hope you have a great day, i misunderstood your use of the word 'why' followed by a question mark.



can i upload clips and fails with no reactions?
yes. just don't call it "live" clips and fails. lol
im bout to tag you in some crap fam lol
on the way to school but remind me when i get home and i'll watch.
will do bruh



i just pbutted that government twat with a 90 &amp; did my review so i really gotta 100


you could've helped me
i didn't know 



what's the gender neutral equivalent of calling someone daddy or mommy in a kinky sense 
good question i wanna know so i can effectively kinkshame non binary ppl as well
bug mama 
"insectoid parental unit"
give it to me hard, insectoid parental unit !!!



wish i could memorize stuff after reading it once smh
that's because your mind doesn't care about what your reading lol.
it kinda does and it kinda doesn't because i actually find this stuff that i'm reading interesting lol
we'll see it's not 100%. yeah best way to memorize stuff is like review notes like an hour three or four times a day.
yeah i need to start going over my notes at least twice a day i just hate studying lol



white girls singing about "niggers" stealing shouldn't have had to face any repercussions? .....
nope bc evidently it was 1) a famous vine they repeated 2) there was no malicious intent 3) it was all freaking jokes
they're not 5 year olds. them repeating what they heard isn't an excuse. it does not matter if there was malicious intent.
of every race say that word all the time to their friends. there should've been no repercussions, if there had to be then
everybody  deserves those same reprimands. that's al i'm trying to get at



i don't have a lot of respect for those who hide behind neutrality on super-important topics. one of them will win. pick a  screwing side.
you don't have to actually vote for either, but when asked a direct question you should be able to answer which you'd rather have.
frankly, i'd like to know where you stand at crunch time, and i think that's fair. "i don't like either" doesn't address the question.
they're not identical, so you should be able to choose between horse crap, or grandpa's follow-through even though neither are palatable.
there are &gt; two choices. weren't amoral



and i were snuggle/cuddle bunnies  blissfully wonderful 
sigh...my dreams about sam are always weird. one time he was my math teacher.
ew! that's sad
haha i would've been a math genius if he'd been my teacher in school! #hotteacher
no, you'd be a genius in something else all together #dirtygirl



hhsur pep rally's ain't crapur student section ain't crapur sports ain't crap do u even have spirit days besides botb ? i'm curious .
okay stop  thats wrong
your football team wins sometimes .. the only thing worth being acknowledged is your basketball,wrestling, and water polo
every sport at hemet is better then wv ?
ya'll act like we ain't crap because our football team is the best .. but neither is yours lmao



i heard someone saying my name but no one up 
that's scary
it's the devil
maybe it is maybe it ain't
we could never no



in fairness, this demo is pretty ballsy #openstacksummit
next up, installing openstack in real-time...
on a raspberry pi.
iot fridge...
all of this dev work, to tell you that you need more milk.






thank you!! 
miss you, jamil!!
miss u! come party!
dance party??? i'm down:-))



i want you all to myself i swear.
but this dick for everybody
whyyyyyy are you always bothering me 
umm do you know what your face looks like
what does it look like 



"i believe that loss and emptiness and confusion often give way to new fullness and wisdom."
i just love this who said it

wait really? so how come you had to put quotes around it why didn't you just state your belief asking for a friend
hahahahah you caught me ;)



wtf should i watch
amber alert
is it good?
yea
if the description butt 



i heart the plastics because they aren't arrogant about america, even when we do things for them. misfits? they knooow we love them. #bbott
like the reason neeley going up was because kryssie didn't let us put scott up.
you don't even know if america would have put scott up. america doesn't really like the misfits if you haven't noticed. #bbott
i wasn't saying that i was repeating what kryssie said she's so delusional. i voted neeley all the way
omg- i am so sorry. i keep getting mean tweets from people about my plastics favoritism.



can we please stop with all the boomer-age senior managers here that just endlessly battle for power while providing zero value to the org??
if i see one more infographic or thinkpiece about millennials being lazy and boomers being producting i'll die
nearly every obstructionist i've encountered in office settings is 40+ and refuses to change at all argvhghhfserfvg
need an analyst yet because hi
hey dork did you read your fing text messages yet?



gya
i can't believe they have fingers and elbows in the end
they look like. lalafel. i think is the name??? ffxiv tinies. tiny dumpling lightning
yep lalafells. but lalafells are evil everyone who plays non-lalafells sacrifices lalafells for clears in raids.
holy  screw. seems fair though, they definitely look untrustworthy to me



stephanie, so excited for you! i love all the buzz caraval is getting! i can't wait to read it! congrats!!! &lt;3 &lt;3
oh, lynne! how are you always so sweet?! thank you so much--this means a lot!!
back at you, stephanie!:) just really stoked for you...you only debut once, and i'm over the moon for you. caraval is big!:)
next time i see you i am so giving you the biggest hug!!!
*smoosh* :)



looking for willow tree(s) near boise please @ me
there's one in my neighborhood!
does it touch the ground? like the vines haha
i can check tomorrow!
i just need one for a shoot  so it's gotta be majestic haha



's wedding in san francisco city hall today.
how long before you swap the uk for san fran?! haha enjoy.
would have happened ages ago if i had my way man haha.
great place. shame i was there when no sport was on!
you should come back when there is. great sporting city.



it's one game. warriors will be fine. but kd has shot a lot of okc type shots. not wide open, beautiful ball movement shots.
lol @ ppl talking crap about the dubs. they didn't lose to sacremento. they will be fine.
they thought they could walk in and beat anyone. they can't. they know that now &amp; will be perfectly fine.
they will struggle to protect the rim and rebound...but that's about it. their perimeter d is a+
yep. it actually took the spurs a bit to start getting penetration. started off by dumping it down into the post



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
well i made it 51 minutes without crying. a new record. i was so close to getting to the end. dang you #thisisus !
does it count itself out if you were crying before,(a stubbed toe) stopped, then cried again? 26 minutes. #thisisus
was the second waterworks from the show or still the stubbed toe?
toe~then stopped~then started again during the show.



omfg. you phoned that one in. love your tweets, slow down and be you. your fine.
"you're."   
was kidding. your doing fine. i didn't mean to say it like that. you truly are a great writer
again... "you're." haha... no worries.
ok. but feel bad.



listen #leafsnation matthews,nylander,marner,our d etc... are all gonna take time to get better,this is a process,be patient #tmltalk
if we want to support kids we'll go watch junior hockeysame old story... suck it up buttercups and ice a team
if you think that we're somehow just supposed to be a contender because we drafted matthews you're surely mistaken man
i don't think... i absolutely know, without a goalie, the team is nothing. anyone who thinks otherwise isn't up to speed
we have a lot of inexperience on this team,so just as babcock/shanny said,it's gonna be bad before it gets good,but i'm all in



#wikileaks has confirmed everything non-hc shields have been saying about hillaryat least hillary being corrupted isn't up 4 debate anymore
if wikileaks is all u have...that's pathetic. every time they release emails, she widens her lead over trump and jill
no it isn't but they have proven hillary is a two faced person.
we have bernie and e.warren with us. i trust their judgment. whatever hrc is bernie is the same 4 supporting her.
b/c they don't like trump.warren and sanders were late to supporting her.sanders isn't like hillary



these  screws are really watching porn in my lounge
i do not believe
they stopped when they saw my tweet
was it tim
nah it wasn't... i won't tell who it was though



met kristians mom today &amp; she's so cute . i feel like we're gonna get along 
so happy for you!!
thank you sm tabby 
lord knows you deserve this happiness! love you s'much lexxxx
good gosh this is all i've been waiting for love you sm more tabbbs. 



if you could have one, would you want a hump day for your life? you'd wake up and know you were halfway to the end, no question about it.
100% of my anxiety comes from not having this.
like this morning, is this pain in my head an aneurysm that will pop any moment or just a headache. i will obsess all day
i get it sometimes when the heart does its "three beats on, one beat off" thing.
plus the practicality, if i knew today was the day my brain pops, i'm not going to work



. i'm all for anything that could get rid of the arrogant umpires
skunk drunk billy martin was a saint back in the day, cocaine 70's-80's,roids in the 90's, now bad upmires?
i just think they make it too much about themselves. a player even looks at them the wrong way they're ejected.
i agree to a point, strike zone is a mess, but do not know what they said to each other last night-all year? grudge?
i'm not sure what you mean.



whatd you get in 351
82/100 let's gooooooo woooooo !!!!!
lol how did you do on the test
omg sorry i thought i replied to your other tweet already xd i got 84 *-*
i think we deserve froyo . but i'm still so full lol .



i just watched "this is us" and it made me cry a little bit.....again. lmao.
that show  screws me up man
i always talk about being heartless but every week when i watch it i'm a little idiot lmao
lmao ok me
currently my favorite show... until nashville comes back.






avoid left on 6. #sageadvice
that's being a bad caddy, never say don't
i didn't. i said avoid
supposed to say keep it right on 6



im shuffling through my ygo decks and why is my dragon deck so useless? i need to rebuild it. my blackwing deck is still gucci tho
i havent played in so long tho im super rusty w my cards and their effects.
lets gooooo
 screw ur deck
i have three decks man .



grows by the day
same girl i just love her
the new originals season came on to netflix and it reminded me of how much i love her 
and once you catch up the new season starts in january or february on cw!!!!
wait these girls came up to my last week and said "do you know chloe from h2o?" and i was like yeah yeah 



morning everyone
good morning.
hope your day is starting off well
slow but ok. how about you?
slow isn't always bad, high pain day but i'll make it through



i can't wait for the netflix marvel characters to finally join forces and beat the crap out of daredevil.
eh, i guess i'd rather they were just as annoyed with daredevil as i am.
haven't seen the new season. what's gone bad?
i liked the first season. 2nd season doesn't live up to the nuance of the other marvel shows.
i watched a few episodes and it just wasn't catching my attention at all.



i don't care about no pillow talking or nun of yo stupid friends 
wya ?
right next to you 
ian even see you
girl cause you with that ugly butt idiot



i think wearing a winter jacket to bmo today is gonna be a football first for me 
layers! sunday was thermals, two shirts, my kit and jacket.
i'm just wearing my kit under my jacket and got my scarves
ah you'll be fine!
i can handle (slightly) the ottawa winter, i can handle anything



so i'm getting $6,000 or more from the guy i sued. this what you get for driving without a license and hitting me and my mom.
time to shop! eh lmao
honestly 
more sdudes and ikebana 
 screw yesssss



still in pain, hurts like hell to move my arms.
oh crap what happened?
i think i overdid it when training the other day, i'm hoping it's just really sore muscles and nothing else.
none of it is in the joints right?
not really, just close to 'em.



good night karen 
good night terri, sleep well 
still wide awake &amp; got to be up in three hours watching cher on youtube 
i'm wide awake cause i'm at work, keeping the world safe &amp; saving lives, lol 
were are you working



i wonder on a scale of one to ten how bad a breast reduction hurt ...i want one 
my mommy had one its painful post op of course the worse part is sleeping in a recliner for 3-6 weeks
hmmm im thinking about getting one but yea bc i sleep on my stomach i almost used to wanna cry when i was pregnant lmao
lol the biggest part is keeping them from sweating under the incision so they wont get infected
oh &amp; you'll have to wear cotton bras but after about 3 weeks u can sleep in the bed



i'm back.
return to sender
 you're like my bestfriend in my head, but in real life you so rude 
did that say return to sender? it should've said good morning friend. auto correct is crazy sometimes 
 have a great day, goofball.



mdr le plan de mon coloc a fonctionn : son sugar daddy lui a propos de se marier pour une green card(a fait 10min qu'il crie)
oh lord
jpp de ce garon, mais grave hte de pleurer  leur faux mariage
aucun respect pour lui-mme ce pauvre garcon
idiotes gotta find their way in



i would kill for some orange chicken rn
that's intense
i don't mess around when it comes to orange chicken
you're the hero this city needs
i do what i can to help my community



this is my first time going to school w no make up 
and i be you still look better than everyone there
i got " omg ur freckles are so cute" like 20 times 
" i didn't know you had freckles "
because we're twins duh ... "you should show your freckles off more" "you look good natural " but *still beats face *



your tweets about texas are making me want to come home 
... oh yeah, that's right ... i'm still in sd . i'll be home in fall of next year!!
you're supposed to visit me here in texas, but wya
but i have a really long winter break! so i'm sure i can come back home and visit 
when is it? 



what's better : ss3 or jeffery?
ss3
you don't fuxk with jeffrey?
jeffery i like ss3 i like better tho
yea i just been rocking with it



so the line up for clbuttic weekend is blac youngsta, jeezy, gotti, gucci and lucci....
when is it?
weekend of november 18-20th
sounds like the get down
every year



my dad thinks i'm ganna sell him my car for 1,000$ hahahahahah wtf this ain't no honda 1996 hahaha
what kind of car is it
2005 dodge magnum
you actually drive a cool car haha. did you crash it pretty bad?
yea it's nice i just don't like how long it is it's jut my pbuttenger door



dude! seriously, not nice
what's not nice lol
bit i i'll live...i guess
oh nah my twitter was hacked
well should i wait til ya fix that



missouri sure is proud of trump, i'm glad i don't live here anymore. also i'll be glad when the election is over!
if i wasn't traveling out of town today, we should have done lunch or something while you were coming through. maybe next time!
wrong part of missouri sweety
oh my. i saw 'oak grove' and thought you were a little closer. 
headed toward salem *hugs*



reminds me of hyper tour wwwwwwwwww :3
yes lmaoooo junho just  screwing running around the stage calling out everyone's names
that was the cutest thing his love for 2pm ahhhh
yesssssss lmao just. /cries so hard. he's so precious i love him ugh.
cries with you he really is ahhhhhh



care that they are totally and completely irrelevant...?#windians #worldseries #cavsmania #monsters
don't been mention the b word.  they've had their chances to be good and they blew it big time.
that's an understatement. i wonder if haslam knows or cares what a joke this team is.
i don't even know.  he's the worst owner in organized sports.
but no more of this depressing talk. three more wins!!!



my friends just reminded me that there's a horrific picture of me blacked out at an after prom from high school somewhere on the internet 
i have one of u pbutted out in ur own car while me and lashayla went to steggs
i'm just trying to live
i wanna live with u
bishhh u livin more than me i miss you and your friend from the party the down butt idiot



good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
do u leave today?
no tmrw at 3pm!!!

i literally feel like i won't see u guys for forever....



i just need a mbuttage ! 
a mbuttage for a mbuttage wbuttup
down but i need my feet mbuttaged still got me or ?
i'm wit it shawty as long as they don't stink!
they don't ! i get my pedis 



probs gonna kicked out of math bc of my cough
i honestly was scared to show up a few days because i had a runny nose and didn't want her to hear me sniffing..
i keep coughing randomly, im in the computer lab &amp; idk if i should even go???
were probably just doing notes, which you can get from someone
sounds like a plan to me.



sim city exactly. they want to force demand and development around choo choos. it wont work because we arent lab rats. #tcnt
look around the blue, green and northstar lines. it is already happening.
there is a long, long way to go. plus the bond market risks. then the other question is, is it even ethical?
why isn't this the same for road construction? it's all social/civil engineering. shouldn't pretend otherwise.
with roads its very easy to determine if you are supplying what is wanted, not forcing it.



if you fux with olivesi dont fux with you
you're a food scrub aren't you?
i just can't stomach them, i literally gag at the smell.
fair nuff dude but which olives have you tried? some olives are crapty af.
that's a good point, i'm not really sure. usually just whatever is offered or on something i accidentally order.



i think all pro sports should be like wrestling, where certain regular season games become title defenses where the trophy can change hands.
cavs-knicks would've been like the monday night raw after wrestlemania.
which leads to an all-star weekend royal rumble, where one player from each team competes in a giant game of 21 for the nba championship 
this is the best idea
.



really got my eye on this dude friend i used ta fw 2 years ago,  screw em that crap wasn't crap obviously. might be pushing the issue seen
that's ova wit i kno who yu talking bout and he off limits 
, bitttt who ?
black nigga with dreads  west side
i just diedddd , right on track but he a older cat 



drone or mac desktop?!?
desktop 4 sure, bc what u gon do w drone footage rn? smh
sister 
if u get a drone i'll edit some crap
starting a movie crew? lol



seeing all the sorority houses with halloween decor really buffs my holiday spirit
wait which houses have you seen?
wtf idk just look for the greek letters lol
you should decorate! isn't sheena doing a carving pumpkin thing?
i'm so busy rn tho d:



there's a hold on my account so i can't enroll for clbuttes... and i only have 2 days to do it smh
emergency contact?
yes!!! but i'm not the only one.. a few of my other friends from cal poly said they updated a week ago and its still there
no it's like everyone:/
that's so annoying..  do you have priority?



you up
nah, tweeting in my sleep 
oh same also i'm coming through to indiana soon come hang out
yes! 
how far are you from iu?!



worst decision dunkin ever made was dropping the french roll
ciabatta fire too
yeah but the turkey bacon cheddar on the french roll with the sauce is the ultimate dunk sammich
old af tho bro
big and toasted is old af bro that thing is ancient



match anyone ?
 screw matching let's go get some grub 
you in 500?
you know that 
come out



live
i got u
oh yeah you have $3,000 
maybe
we're poor but it's nice to dream



i hope everyone registered to vote on time 
only if ur on the ballot
you can write me in! lol jk. but did you?
if there is i'm doing it idc,&amp; haha of course once u register once you registered forever since i voted for obama last time
no vote clinton! haha okay good 



kd really messes up the warriors chemistry
i agree. but it took the 2010 heat a month or two to look in sync.  so ima wait this one out before i say for sure
that's different tho... they didn't have 4 guys that are gotta put up 20 a night and 3 guys that take 20 plus shots a night
but....lebron......lol
lol lebron what? 



chapped lip season......my favorite.  #overwinteralready
me too. and i'm on medication that has "dry chapped lips" as a side effect, so i get a double whammy this year 
omg!!!  load up on chapstick!! 
omg i have so many different ones! and lip scrubs and masks. it's terrible already lol
i feel so bad for you. i cannot imagine!!!! i bet coconut oil would help too!!!



it's 4:50 in the morning and i'm soo unbelievably irritated with myself bc i drank an energy drink at 9 for no dang reason
what were you thinking lol
i was trying to hang out and actually be social when everyone got home from closing ;p
well i mean, you can't be mad because those were some good intentions lol
but larry didn't even hang out with us so for me it just resulted in a headache &amp; upset tummy 



okay social media ethical types i have a conundrums i want to post something to point out obvious racist symbology and semiotics
i don't want the pain in my mentions or a pile on on this person but this crap looks like a cross btw rand/riefenstahl/ and the first myst
never mind read the tl and do not care no more
perfectly reasonable to say "here. this is problematic. figure out why."  you can't spoon feed us logic all the time.
it's a pop quiz for us. if we are paying attention to what you say at all, we should be able to get it. you're awesome.



warriors gotta 4 game losing streak... don't sleep 
you're childish 
it's facts bro lol
haha i know
lol i can really into deep details 



the cops hate andrea man
what happen
not just one cop, but two got her azz
omg whyyy lhh
snapping and driving, swerving all over the place, speeding  must i go on



wow i've gotten 9 tattoos this year i need to be tamed
lemme tame you
doesn't sound fun
i can make it fun
i mean in that case maybe



wonder how mad my mom would be if i just came home with a cat 
she'd tell you to keep it in the barn
true
bc we both know it would end up being hers bc you wouldn't clean up after it 
not true



i really want to like my reisaru week fics but i feel like they aren't as good as i want them to be meh
i'm sure they're great! it sucks that you feel that way though i hope you'll eventually like them!
thanks girl &lt;3 idk i just am like feeling weird about it!!
that's normal but it'll all be worth it once you post them and people give you the good feedback you deserve!
i hope people like them!! i'm just excited to be finished soon!! ahh



ok so last night me &amp; my girl were playing around and she told me to stop it so i was like "bish y" &amp; she replied with b/c i'm smilin
so hard it's hurting my cheeks
my lil jasmine is the cutest thing ever
u guys make me so happy
u make us so happy &amp; sup proud 



so far, my experience with spacemacs hasn't been very positive.
one of the things i like about vim is that you don't have to do a bunch of configuring to be productive. spacemacs doesn't feel that way.
can't decide if like that as soon as it recognized i was in some file type (ruby, html, etc), it wanted to download syntax libraries for me.
i mean, i guess it's cool that it has a bunch of approved libraries that don't come pre-installed but it tries to get them upon relevance.
this happens on ubuntu too, right?  if you type `git` on a fresh install, i believe it recommends installing git.



warriors big are soft. warriors gotta fill the center position
that's why trade klay thompson for demarcus cousins
nope
why not.!?
just cause



new projection show at the magic kingdom just in time for wine &amp; dine race weekend!  nice!
saw this.. sounds epic!
agreed!  great use of the technology!
thinking main st area will be even more slammed then it is for wishes
totally true..



i have a maple butterscotch wax melt in my apartment and it smells soooo good 
yum
you can taste my wax melt?
yes
interesting 



anything good on netflix i havent seen?
black mirror!!!
not sure why, but im super reluctant to watch that
your missing out
 ill give it a try



accidently clocked in 15 minutes early and then went and slept in my car...
"accidentally"
no seriously didn't even look at the clock lol just punched my numbers in and scanned my hand.
lmfao clearly you needed the nap
i got to work wayyyy too early. lol



was literally about to tag you in this but you are the person who retweeted it 
i was gonna tag you in it when i retweeted it but was like nah he'll see it on fb  that dude was killing it all night
spurs might be good this year 
what'd i tell you 
pop's the 






you still in the city?
yeah bro just got back
got a session tomorrow in the heights, come through
fasure what time



i just may have to accept defeat this time.
defeat?
cosplay defeat. i don't think there's any possible way i can finish everything even if i work as hard as possible
nix the bow? what's left? also, at least we can party hard in casual cosplay.
nah everything is in about a half status and it's just not promising. casual cosplay may be the thing!



midterm #7 today

learn how to find the limiting reagent little boy.
easy work.
not for you



who's up
yo
sup am slayer
h1
i'm pooped maybe later or tomorrow



had i known domino's doesn't deliver to my new house i wouldn't have moved here
wtf why!!!
i literally just moved to a new townhouse!
omg no way! where at/why?
still in college area, down by target. serenata town homes! i'll tell you next time i see u 



today is the day i get to open the new bag of coffee beans and i am very excited.
half the time i can't tell if i have an immense capacity for enjoying the little things in this world or i just totally need to get a life.
it's just that the beans smell so good.
definitely the bean-smell. i myself am a clandestine bean-sniffer.
well now you made it sound dirty, david



i dont know why ppl study geometry
loool i like trigonometry tho
i like algebra.. complications ..im good at that
algebra is love
replace pizza with algebra



 screw it up for the hood doeeee 
do ya dance for the hood doeeeee 
haaaaaaaaan 
lady shaggy oh wuuut
lady kriket oh whaaaaaaaaa



i told you to hold that crap down
you can't just hold it with d
yea i saw the pick at the end of the game
they still won't make it to the playoffs  and we still have the #1 win streak
navy sec fo lost?



i'm about to say something here about #parenting and #life and you might have to stick with me for a minute.
i've been having some mental health issues since nola was born and you could say i'm not living my best life.
but nola is a "perfect" child. not really i know, but she's smart and cute and everyone immediately falls in love with her.
and i want her to look cute in her clothes because i don't.
i forgot where i was heading w this bc i got distracted but i know clothes particularly are a battle w kids sometimes



oh cool  #isles fan bashing by montreal media. gosh,  screw these entitled pricks
say what now?
attendance bashing
attendance has been pretty awful though. slow octobers are nothing new.
its every year no uptick til december



bruh most females be for everybody i've come to terms that's just how it is outchea
um no lol
uhhhh yes
there is a difference between a girl and a woman tho
i'm aware that's why i said females i'm talking all ages 



if any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. (1 cor. 3:18) #atheism #bible #gosh
yes your religion's hatred for intelligence, which sees right through it, is well known.
starting out the day being that judgmental can't be good friend.
says the judgemental one who views others as fools.
i haven't judged you. i quoted scripture. what happened was you read it and judged yourself. that's how the holy spirit works



both meulin and nepeta are good. i kinda like meulin a bit more but i couldn't choose a favorite
kankri is cuter and more interesting than karkat
stupid cat
cats eat birds better be careful, tubby
you don't know anytjing. fool .



hi lady ... how was your first night back at work???
it was good deb, thankfully my work is mental, not physical, plus they hired 2 new girls 4 my shift, so it's easier, less alarms
yay!!!! i'm soooooo happy for you 
feels good 2 be back &amp; not sitting on my butt at home. now i'm sitting on my butt &amp; getting paid for it, lol thanks deb, how r u? 
lol i can imagine it is very nice for you!! i'm great....just enjoying the  &amp; my cubbies in the world series finally 



lucid dreams are just awful
i had sleep paralysis for the first time over the weekend. it was spooky
3sooky5me
i just remember hearing like something making noises behind me and i couldn't move and was like shaking
yeah its pretty bad man usually you have ways to wake up



wow, this furore over the esc keys removal might last almost as long as the one about the headphone jackanyone remember that?
i don't think the headphone jack thing is going away. it's completely changed my future phone choice.
im certain apple wont change it back. so tell me: whys the included adaptor not good enough?
put simply: it's not user centered, at least to me. unless you want to look cool, wired earbuds are easier/cheaper/not easily lost
it still comes with wired earbuds in the box. (and if you want to use your own, theres an adaptor in the box too)



easily taking money line eagles this week
lets bet then 
20 straight up?
yea
bet no fraud crap



call me to talk #tinyhouse
called
called back
do you still have plans to use the tiny house
yes. i'll talk about it with my boss today.



got my back on this one #inkmaster 
good thing he doesn't listen to dark matter yet ... "snacks up your butt ..."  (hope everything's ok though) 
i am a bad mom. asked him why not up his butt? he says eeewwww poop comes out of their?  #paininthebuttchild
my daughter lol'd on the floor 
on our way back he apologized for the marble up his nose &amp; for almost making mommy poop her pants &amp; almost pbutting out 



2l of heem, 1l of jger, might grab big boi grey goose too...that should be good right?
not a pre game anymore...more of a party 
we got peeps coming lol. plus my friend kyana &amp; amanda they're staying at the same hotel &amp; they got drinks as well
hahaaaaaaaa we getting  screwed 
*sideways



some nigga just dove in my dms trying to pay my tuition
you're tweeting this like you told him no
i didn't respond 
craptt i'd pull up on that offer lol
*keeps fafsa money*



that heart dropping moment you read about a murder on the same black as your parents live. then find out it was right next door.
i think you meant block.
when my phone is racist. 
all jokes aside, is your family okay?
there was this incident. and earlier this year my brothers house had a stray bullet hit 6 feet from his head.



the ultra boost goshs answered my prayers 
the next roshes
chill that's the nmds 
boosts next
no way dawg. comfort never goes out of style



the mandela effect surrounding hannibal lecter in media is weird sometimes. like, he was never cool. he was always a nerd. who eats people.
"nuh-uh!" says that one dude i always run into w/ a anthony hopkins facemask t-shirt. "maybe in the show, but not in the movies!" uh-huh.
yeah, fullerverse hannibal was a nerd who went to fancy-jail for 3 because a boy wouldn't go out w/ him, but we saw the same movies, dude.
and in the books, hannibal lecter had six fingers on one hand and red eyes. he was a cartoon villain and an even bigger nerd. i can't even.
so like...does inego montoya ever get his revenge for hannibal eating his father?



swear to gosh if emma ricard sends me one more picture of her tits
why complain my dude
i mean they nice but dang
ungrateful  screw
 i'm blessed



i really hit amanda's car lmao. i'm going back to bed
you're kidding...
nope lmao. she's not mad though and it's not that bad.
gosh love you omg
it's been a rough week lmfao.



i'm so excited for this saturday
and speaking of, does anyone want to go for a hike on saturday morning? please be advised that i am in no shape whatsoever.
i'm going too, ia! :)

what? i really am. be happy for me. 



i kinda feel like playing bo3 but it gets boring playing solo
i'll play with you!
psn??
dang! xbox 1 
i have a xbox1



. ask me anything about a walk to remember.
what is "a walk to remember"?
it's my greatest work. it's about a man who finds a vampire and interviews him. there are other vampires also.
oh wow sounds like a winner!
it's really good, mate. lots of biting. lots.



im tryna b white girl wasted sos
uneed to be white girl studying bye
hmm 
what have u done so far 
ive written 4 essay outlines fuk u



sure are a lot of goaltending experts out there, not to mention the "i have a friend who was a ducks fan and he said...." comments.  hahah !
so, you're a big freddie fan eh? cool. have fun with that. i like good goal tending.
lazy chirp.
watch highlights. he plays now just like in anaheim. also, see carey price as an example of good. this ain't that. not close.
carey price is elite.  if you are looking to replace bernier with carey price, good luck with that.  .915 % career. .851% here.



are you at sector conference? hope your sector discussion going well
, i'm actually here at the conference!
i'm only here for part of this morning, say hello
we can also connect through pm here on twitter, or tmaguire.org
perfect!  i'm just kind of at the back tables.



it my mutha screwing birthday idiotes 
happy birthday come smoke this blunt 
thank you  when ? 
wya rn?
out east



hi
call
no monitor
i meant on ur phone
no phone



good morning gentlemen. i hope that y'all have a wonderful day.
thanks adam. you too!
and watch the entire oklahoma/texas tech cfb game from last saturday night.
i guess i could but i really don't have time. sounds like no defense was played. lol
that's true. i'm currently watching it. no defense was played but lots of records were set.



i have 2 different interviews this week and if both go well i don't know which job to pick 
flip a coin
will prob make a pros and cons list for each after my interview friday
or you can make a twitter poll
i would have to let twitter know all the pros and cons so they can make an educated decision



so, so you think you can tell heaven from hell, blue skies from pain.can you tell a green field from cold steel rail?a smile from a veil?
i have a pt that shaves his eyebrows &amp; reminds me of the wall.... #psychissues
oh wow! that film still gets me. been in my head because of the election and how close trump is to being a fascist.
it's a clbuttic for sure! a clockwork orange too! those 2 movies' metaphors sum up all of my fears for this country!! 
yea it's roger waters and kubrick territory and it freaks me the  screw out!



we need political efficacy tests at polling stations. if you fail you can still vote, your vote just counts as 3/5 of normal peoples'.
then we're going against the voting rights act of 1965. that would be discriminating people because they're less knowledgeable.
so we need to change the law then.
no, because then we would be going against our founding principles. ya know... equality and natural born rights?
the trade off is that we have people who are actually educated voting. that is actually exactly what they had in mind.
there is no trade off when you are taking away people's rights, especially something as crucial as voting.



my family has been talking so much crap bc my hair is red like vallanse alv pinches envidiosos 
haha
pendejos lol
no les hagas caso
i cussed everyone out i need jesus
omg fr?? dangnn lol



it's funny how you hate sports and cleveland so much but yet you can go out and try to celebrate everything that's going on. fake.
what i been saying in my head all day about mbutt people tho
it's ridiculous
i saw people who a few months ago posted about how baseball is sickening to them, post "go tribe!" &amp; "world series!!" today 
 i guess it just comes with the territory
coach francola though 



it's this one grandma looking butt idiot that always looking at me weird i be so confused 
go to sleep 
girl fr i b wanting to know wtf is the reason for the looks tf
 that's all mfs do down here is stare , have you thinking it's sum on yo face like dang
girl i b giving them the stank look or i b like wbuttup  but this idiot i just b lost like ..
 she in yo clbutt or something?



back to reality....
i had no idea getting back to reality would be this difficult!  #takemeback #nkotbcruise2016
im going to guess this is your 1st cruise .... its going to be rough lol
you are correct! regardless of how miserable i feel, i can't wait to do it again! 
this was 8 for me and #pcd (post cruise depression) is sorta like pregnancy brain you will forget all about it &amp; do it again
lol!  you're my hero!!!! 



as soon as this color fades or after halloween its going back ...uhuh color isn't for me anymore ! bye 
what you gunna be?
bulma from dbz :)
sweet!!
yes :) he he dantes going to be goku ^.^
aww that's cute. i can't wait to see



is kawhi still a system player? i'll wait.
you know they play 81 more games right?
they're 0-1 though. if they would have won though...
personally i would have said the same thing. 81 more to go.
1-0 bruh. no excuses. it's 1 game, but the league is on notice.
on notice? . hopefully your bench plays the majority of the minutes. u have the slowest starting lineup in the nba.






yay! i haven't watched last night show yet. but i'm super psyched.
it was really good. i'm loving #supergirl so much this season.
i've loved it too. esp tyler as superman. just which there wasn't less cat. hope calista returns often.
i agree. tyler is amazing as superman. i hope cat does come back often. that last episode with her, oh my gosh tears.
okay, i watched it &amp; i'd much rather kara be w/ mon el than james. 



i get the feeling that nintendo isn't on schedule for nx. i just feel they'd be willing to tell us more if they were.
then again only nintendo knows what nintendo is doing.
they may just be trying to build intrigue. they're could be teasing us along. to build hype.
but there's a danger there of not delivering on the hype. if you're gonna do this it has to be worth it.
once all the games and release date is announced, go hardcore on ads and have a superbowl ad
is nintendo cool enough to make a superbowl ad?



this is a friendly reminder that removing stuff like cd player, esc keys, headphone jacks, etc is not innovation.
. also people in 3rd world countries still use things like cds and headphone jacks because it's more accessible and affordable
arguably those people don't use the latest macbooks. i'm sure they've done their market research and know their customer.
hmm i meant more if someone from 3rd world who can afford to get a mac and tries to use it with other people...
...then that person will run into problems.
for example, i bought the macbook with a cd player because everyone back home still uses cds



power tripping and changing answers mid way through the event
and they kicked my friend cus she glitched sigh
sort your fansites out!!!
yeah its acc ridiculous, now she cant get back in :(
omg they are threatening to kick if we use answers that are on a guide omg im dyinggggg
lool what the actual  screw!?



kevin love
aye bruhh uu gotta let your man kno who win between the spurs and warriors
bruh you know the answer to that warriors
ii got 10 on dat game wit dis nigga at my job but uu kno dey might choke for my money
you lost that 10 bruh
smh what ii tell uu dey sum chokies



this is a tragedy i will fight who ever shut their wonderful account down
what happened
someone reported the account i guess
it's still up tho?
it is.
just cant go on it



if my moms still ask about you then you was a real one
yeah she be blowing up my line
jean be blowing my crap up
 she don't like a bum butt nigga
unless they 2500 we don't  screw around with no glbuttes
big dawg them billy butt stones in yo frames



got home in time for shining star ;;
i was  screwing thinking how it'd be good if you were here ;;
aww bb i miss you ;;
sameeeee ;; good you're here ;;
it /feels/ so, so good to be here 
ahhhhhh t____t



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
im sure that was his last thought, mol.
if there are anymore of em juliet &amp; i will hunt them down &amp; kill them &amp; their families. after a snack &amp; a nap time of course. 
well, yes, its important to keep a clear view of our priorities.



what to do?
right there at jack theres some chicken strips and fries you think you can drop some off? can i pay u with trident gum
i'm shhleeep
lol hella dumb pick me up lets mob to sf
yea right now omw
im fr though



and them drugs come in handy, last name hendrix but no i'm not jimmi...
told you. 21 guy.
yeah trash.
you say that now.
shout out kodak black
never (josys voice)



feels so good starting to own everything and paying everything yourself. #justgotmyowncarinsurance
how much do you pay if you don't mind me asking i just got my own too lol
well my first payment was 178, the rest are 153 a month. and eyyy nicee
nice what insurance do u have?
how much you pay? i got geico
at first i paid 178 and then it was $146 a month. but then out of nowhere they raised my payments to $300 



my best romantic relationships are the imaginary ones i have with women on twitter. not sure if that's sad or a good thing.
seems like you could do better. 
so you think my imaginary twitter relationship with sarah is doomed? 
dunno who that is, so i cannot speak to that.
thetigersez. 
i don't know what this is



i love the work my spurs are putting in. #gospursgo
spurs will still be good this year as well
i know it's just the first game, but they put on a clinic
easy mike don't get ahead of yourself
i'm just very excited by what i saw last night
without bumcan they may be better



that phone call just made my week, thanks nick
come visit me at westminster sometime!
hit me up when you are free!!!
what are you doing tomorrow afternoon??
working:/
what about this weekend?



#thisisus
what part
the scene when kate and toby discuss watching football with jack
you mean the fact that jack is dead
yep
wasn't there something with her dad being named miguel also



i wonder if swift is important part of apple's car work. the stability concerns make a lot of sense for mission critical systems like cars.
ergg, skeptical of this one. many mission-critical systems are written in c or similar.
swift itself ain't that stable.
i don't think the programming language is the utmost concern with problems like these.
and  i'd be surprised if apple was using swift for anything like that at this point given how the syntax continues to change.
the argument that preventing subclbutting would prevent a car crash is really tenuous.



11:11
i wished for a boyfriend .
it won't come true now cause you said it.....
prolly wasn't going to anyways :/
it's cool imma be a single pringle too so just love the crap outta it 
cool we can get through it together :-)



looking for the dodgers game on my tv guide...
did you dvr it??
must have missed it... they play again soon right?
yeah yeah, they kick the season off in april!
oh the same time the orioles play again!! perf!!! i secretly miss you
i knew you would  it's okay though because i definitely miss you.



i wish i had friends that would be down to chill or go on adventures at this time
i don't see an invitation in my messages????
"i have two papers due tomorrow each 1,000 words"
that was then, this is now  screw you gn
let's do something then dude
pick me up



1:10 am and tempted to eat these hot cheetos 
do it.
suppose to say no geo c'mon...
but.... hot cheetos are life?
geez.. why are you so right ??
aren't i always! lol jk



white girls singing about "niggers" stealing shouldn't have had to face any repercussions? .....
nope bc evidently it was 1) a famous vine they repeated 2) there was no malicious intent 3) it was all freaking jokes
they're not 5 year olds. them repeating what they heard isn't an excuse. it does not matter if there was malicious intent.
on that note you're absolutely right. but ppl fail to realize the intent of the video.. ultimately it's not that deep, people
a term used in the way that nigger was, is dense.
i agree to disagree sis 



way too much for my own good and he needs to visit my butt asap" tweet
luv u boi
&amp; i might hit the peoria date but 4sure lansing show!!
boi
and we'll wil out per usual
i'm sure we could work that out!



to update you on jamie herrington she has stated she took cough syrup which gave her the positive test. #wmma
interesting, if that is truly the case i swear nothing is safe anymore
it's a similar case to what jessica rakcozy went through a few years back.
i hear ya, while everyone is quick to cast judgement lately i have been holding back especially seeing how there can be screw ups
glad jamie came out with her side right after it was announced. hate to speculate what happened.
same, i really hope we haven't entered an era where we really have to question fighters and the labs for the truth



the warriors have 11 points off their bench. just run durant with them? he still gets his shots, and you don't mess with the top 5.
i don't think that would appeal to kd
how bout start with first 5 minutes then run two stars at a time for the rest of the first 3 quarters? there bench was turibl
i think klay should be the person on the bench if anyone
i think that makes sense, but i wouldn't want to mess with the team from last year's chemistry
i would. golden state: 



psa: attending escape 3 consecutive years makes you a real raver.
lol wut.. 3 years?  the og's go back to 2012
2011 or mm
we started in 07 lol
started in 2010! better than 2013 tho 
as long as you don't use the term real raver you're good 












(ccap, iss, detention)
miss food fights at lunch
i miss throwing food at people we didn't like.. our "trash shoot"



bluffed seeing ye on my birthday. might gotta fade this joint in december
take me with you
we should fade 
you know i'm with it fr, just let me know when you getting the tickets
 screw around and grab them next week fr lol
we'll see how my funds looking friday lol how much are they?



jack in the box or subway 
jack in the box is that late night go to for me lol
lol will do
unless you already made your pick then it is what it is.
i went to jack like half an hr ago lol
oh yuuuup, but what did you get though?



mfs annoying i'm just tryna get this jeep and keep it moving
a wrangler ?
sahara yeah
might as well get the rubicon and keep it moving lol ...they both cold but yea
it's just so hard to get either one 
they got em on like scottsdale road and mcdowell ... but they charging like 40k instead of 37



coffee
mines almost gone already. and i wanna cry.
on my second cup 
omg i hate you
i love you bebe 
lol i do love you too meh


















gm y'all #worldseries time 



the fact we let this nigga slide with 30 lates is absolutely beyond me either
i was late every single day for 6 years. lol.
lmao are you serious omg did they never write you up?
like once, but i was their best employee. they never actually did anything 
 that's his reasoning he was like "im your best" and i was like bruh you were on your final warning what do you expect?!
the difference between him &amp; i: i was told i was the best employee and that's why my inability to be on time was overlooked



eating #keto is so much fun when friends who know you're on a "diet" see you order a spinach salad w/ steak/eggs/bacon/avocado/extra cheese.
haha mmm, sounds tasty, makes me want to eat "keto" as well &lt;
it's a tough adjustment (i still falter), but it can be an amazing lifestyle change.
well hang in there then, i have faith in ya!! i really should eat healthier tbh  i need to check that out, idk much about it
thanks! it really helps that i feel amazing when i adhere... but it's not for everyone. feel free to ask questions!
well thank you! hmm, i did a brief search on google before i went to work today and it said, "low carb diet," care to elaborate?



not going out this weekend my body hurts
this weekend is 
turn up for me lol
with* 
. awwee crap lol i thought you had someone
i do but it doesn't matter 



welcome to buffalo wild wings, where we're out of boneless and honey bbq...
don't be that customer lol
nope....legit, i was that employee.  and was dead serious too.  we're out until thursday &gt;_&gt;
wait you worked here too? lmaoooo
lol yup...with the absolute best management  /sarcasm
i actually don't mind it i've worked for  screwin hitler soooo



ain't no fun unless errrybody can get some!  i can't wait to be an investor! #theprofit
#notimelikethepresent
how?? i don't have any money to invest! 
first invest in the book rich dad, poor dad. second, set aside 10% of every paycheck every time. pay yourself first!
good morning! up reading "rich dad, poor dad" again...i had such a different mindset when i read it the 1st time! let's see!
you can do it!



if i transfer money from my bank to my paypal, will that show on my pp immediately but not my bank? says 3-5 business days help
guys this is serious tryna by my bbuttnectar ticket yo
dang, i had an extra one i would have just sold you!
aw man!!! are you gunna still be there!?:)
yes! but i'm going to the grand rapids nights, not peoria. is that the one you're going to?
omg lucky you!!! yes it is:)



november is gonna be lit! traveling every weekend... arky game, medical school interviews in al and iowa, lsu game, fsu game. i'm excited! 
i lived in iowa for awhile when i was younger.... iowa city is decent, cold as crap in the winter... super freakin cold.
i've never iowa. never visited, never traveled through, nothing. the school i'm interviewing at is in des moines.
it would be a big adjustment for sure. i'm a florida baby. i would need like a life clbutt on snow, ice, frozen pipes, driving...
yeah.. its alot different... and snow is on ground from like november thru march... feets of it... lol
my interview is november 14th so maybe i'll get to see snow!?!  



"jordan doesn't like anyone, he only tolerates us because he works with us".".
that's not true. you loved rodney.
the only thing i loved about rodney was his aid in developing the mcdonald's theory, regarding dating optimization.
"honey dip"
this rings no bells.
that's what you said when you spoke in his voice. or something similar. but i probably got it wrong, like everything



i swear disney movies are the best
how old are you? 10?
21. lion king still my favorite movie all time
mines blood in blood out guess we don't relate
that's a dope movie too. la primera lives
yea lion king pretty cool with simba and crap



if you've never taken a plan b yo pussy trash
i beg to differ !!
so u telling me every nigga that swam in it successfully pulled out... you ma'am are a liar
well naw i wouldn't say that but i ain't need no plan b either 
you must got some military issue birth control 
nope. gosh just got my back. that's my homie



never realized how much "action green" i have in my wardrobe. don't judge.
bruh?
i'm a ginger!
i know, but .... still ...........
green is awesome! i was always meant to be a seahawks fan.
i stick with the blue....



i'm so happy today i didn't even talk crap to my bf about his beloved warriors getting blown out last night
how on earth is your bf a warriors fan? i hope he's from there..
he is from there and moved here little over two years ago for work haha
haha okay, then he is a good man.
he just so happened to move here as cle sports (sans browns) are taking over the universe so it works well.
haha it's amazing, isn't it. what a time to be a cleveland sports fan.



december 5th, 9th, 31st 
dec my birthday 
mines the 31st
we up next
can't wait 
you and me both



mac millers album is really great. i really like "the divine feminine"
stay is over of my favorite cuts off that album.
i was actually listening to it when i made that tweet..i was like enough is enough..this album is too smooth
def underrated, i was impressed had never listened to mac before this.
me neither..however i'm not gonna double back and go through his discography lol
lol we aren't. he's just on the radar now



i want to go to a game in edmonton more than anything.
i will 1000% join you
i would sell my soul to the devil to go ... i would walk there shshsh
when do nyr play there
november 13 :c
ok when else can we go



hi daive - i would enjoy providing you with seahawks news and analysis #gohawks
wouldn't everyone
don't know - just asking - i just love them and tweet about them without any hidden thought / interest
well my bad man. i'm garnering a lot of bs social media attention as well as the... not bullcrap?
i'm just retweeting the best of the seahawks beat writers, players and bloggers and giving some own thoughts as well
honestly as a person who's nearly about to start doing the same, can we telecommunicate? you know the phone call way?



i'm such a crafty/creative person, that when i don't do anything creative i feel sad. and i want to do so many things but can't decide
let's be like old ladies and start quilting
i know how to knit. lol. and i have a sewing machine so i'm down 
loll okie. 'tis quite satisfying
i still need other stuff to do though 
idk, quilting is time consuming af lol but a cooking clbutt or art clbutt or something? i would die. it sounds so fun



i wanna get to the money 
we finna get us some gfs bruh 
chief i done got me one 
 when this happen

i can pull down there and wake the block up



ffx had one of the best video game soundtracks ever. hands down.
i must agree with you!
right! ffvii is a close second. after ffx-2 i didn't care much for any other soundtracks though. the series fell off for me.
ffvii is iconic so definitely and anyone that's a true fan of ffx knows that ffx-2 was a disappointment lol
about dang time they make a remake of ffvii, too. goshddd, wasn't it? i still played it because i didn't waste $50 for nothing 
really tho it's only taken  a decade lol, but yeah i'm over here waiting for ffxv to drop. then it's rip lyfe



let's go, cubbies!  hey!  they were always my second team of there is any such thing being as big of a braves fan as i am...
i always had that wgn connection for the cubbies and the bozo show.  ha!
hey, haven't had a chance to talk to you since that butt whooping you guys put on arkansas! color me impressed
oh yeah.  i was beside myself.  totally didn't see that one coming.  they're looking good, though.
i don't think anyone did. y'all indeed look better each week.
yep.  i couldn't be happier about the progress in seeing on offense.  the defense is just nasty!



another 11am kick..  you jinxed it a few weeks back!
 i take it back lol
too late! watch.. last home game vs tech gonna be 11am too
that'll probably depend on our win this weekend. but the way our season's going right now, i wouldn't expect anything else 
hey now!!! we totally beat kansas that says 2:30 kickoff right?!
 beating kansas should mean we get prime time @ 6:30



says water like "wudder"
fight me i can't help it
your 2 ft away from me ...hit me 
you're* and i wasn't even 2 feet
hate you ..
no you don't



don't call my phone about somebody else man!
got da juice 
i really don't charel 
foh
smh it's too early for this
never too early



everyone says senior year is so easy but i have more work then i have ever had.
you're doing it wrong then
whaaaatttt
i had sooo little work to do senior year
i have soooo much homework every night
the most homework i had would be whenever i wrote a speech for public speaking &amp; non-fiction writing other than that nothing



sooo.... did everyone on uapb campus tv's loose signal?
girl yeah.
well idk but mine did
my ls at the jbj said she did too
some people at the plex too
smh only uapb



wya
: our regular school , they said i had to take 2nd part of fsa
oh ok you taking it now or afternoon?
: now , while i.m here
the next one in the afternoon right? when yours start?
: uuuhh , i think soo &amp; mines started at 8.



what's the gender neutral equivalent of calling someone daddy or mommy in a kinky sense 
good question i wanna know so i can effectively kinkshame non binary ppl as well
bug mama 
"insectoid parental unit"
give it to me hard, insectoid parental unit !!!
i'm a bad boy!!!



people look at me weird when i stop to hug trees, like as if i'm out of this world. and in that moment, yes, i am.
kid you not intook a course this summer whetr one of the buttigments was to hug the rocks snd trees in cp
that's beautiful! it raises compbuttion, awareness and, i personally feel, it reduces stress.
not gonna lie to you, the lesson went over my head :( but i do talk to trees/ plants lol we're not at hugs yet
i think it's cuz i grew up around a lot of plants. my mom's living room was a mini botanical garden lol plants love to listen 
lol same! its something i carried over into my space too. i have 4 plant babies, want another one.



goodnight everyone 
good night peggy, sleep well &amp; sweet dreams!!! hope you have an easy day at work tomorrow, first day back after vaca 
good morning karen hope work was ok last night sleep well today raging hard and cold here 
good morning, try to stay dry. had good night at work, butt hurts from sitting in hard chair, got my pillow, still hurts
now you can sleep and get off hinny. i'm just getting started worked 30 min after i was off yesterday new part time job
what new part time job &amp; why are you trying to kill yourself? 



wish i was rich and didn't work, so i wouldn't have to make this drive every morning at 6:15
hell yea
crap sucks
fr lol it that paycheck be nice lol
that's the only thing getting my tired butt outta bed
trynna tell you lol



nobody can  get me hot like brii do i swear 
man i feel you

borris the only niggah who gets me hot
exactly she the only person that get me soo hot
that's what happens when you get into a relationship. lol



it's 4:50 in the morning and i'm soo unbelievably irritated with myself bc i drank an energy drink at 9 for no dang reason
what were you thinking lol
i was trying to hang out and actually be social when everyone got home from closing ;p
well i mean, you can't be mad because those were some good intentions lol
but larry didn't even hang out with us so for me it just resulted in a headache &amp; upset tummy 
 you will have good karma heading your way!



i think it's time tebow tried another sport. or i mean followed another dream.
i just sat through the last 3 innings of the game with an indians fan that also likes tebow. as in playing baseball 
because why?!
because i was signing a contract with a doula client. and the game was on. and then baseball and trash talk.
lol nooo why does he like tebow the baseball player?
because his baseball ideas are damaged, clearly. lol



love joel armia.  he gives his all. #nhljets
is he finally there? wjhc stud! took some time.
looks like they are grooming him as pk. he's got more offense than half the forwards.
pk? that's garbage. top 9 f easy.
in this group maybe 6.
high end skill. it was the drive that was lacking



i go into work at 8 and i'm no where near being sleepy.
count some sheep lol
it worked lol, and then i had to get up an hour later 
lol i'm barely going to sleep right now when i get out
girl you can sleep for me, i don't get out until 4 today 
lol i'm wired i feel like i'm not going to be able to sleep



for some reason i got like really drunk yesterday
must be nice
i wanna get drunk right now
 screwing same
i think i'm gonna do it tbh
if you ain't got crap to do today gon head



but he was seventeen...
lmao read all these and girl the same always happens to me
when he was talking about his senior year i busted out laughing i couldn't help it i was so stunned
happens to me at work mostly cause they be cute asf then they'll be like "yeah i'm 17 hby" 
 omg. you never know with all these beards
no but really though cause the one i was trynna talk to had a full butt one 



pretty girl with the long hair
where you been, what's over there?
ugly girls stop and they stare 
it's too bad, life it ain't fair

you like 5 ft 2, you got your hair done too?



i wonder on a scale of one to ten how bad a breast reduction hurt ...i want one 
my mommy had one its painful post op of course the worse part is sleeping in a recliner for 3-6 weeks
hmmm im thinking about getting one but yea bc i sleep on my stomach i almost used to wanna cry when i was pregnant lmao
lol the biggest part is keeping them from sweating under the incision so they wont get infected
i want them so small that they won't be able to sweat under anywhere lmao
lmfaooooooooo a full c cousin that's good enough



working these next 8 hours without headphones are gonna be brutal
do you still work at safeway??
yes
are you doing night crew?!
no they got me switching tags
oh crap ok



only sexy people are up
thats why im going to sleep
take yo bum butt to sleep
what fool don't talk to me like that son
your adopted
you right



i actually miss reading books rn. 
i actually miss the crap out of you
aweh vannie! i miss you too. college has been keeping me in my toes and i work on weekends.  i do miss you a lot.
dude same between work and school full time i don't even have time to breathe.
then how are you alive? 
i'm not dude



i wanna dm #oomf to talk about something, but i'm scared.
shoot your shot
, lol nahhhh don't wanna come off weird. have you talked to neicha?
lol you won't! &amp; not recently i meant to hit her up to check on her.. everything cool?
, nah it's not. she'll tell you about it!
 what's going on bro



got a lil excited to wake up and see max and ruby on tv lol
can't even fake, that's the show
nahh like real live 
my mans max be wylin lol reminds me of me 
lmao nah max was too much of a g to be you
wowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww. that is crazy about you



sometimes i just think about all the sadness that has happened in history and i'm like "something has to be done about this!"

we need to turn tears... into action
hmm i don't know it sounds like a lot of extra work
you're right
it's too bad



in the few hours i've had it, i have to say i really like my new pixel. #madebygoogle
if google did that concept years ago when nexus began i'd likely still an an android user.
you might give them another look. it still has a headphone jack at least!
4 androids and problems. 4 iphones now and no problems. plus i haven't had to use a headphone jack since getting the 7 ;)
feeling you for sure. i tried ios once but it just didn't feel right.
yeah i liked it but too little too late to me. i am intrigued by fi thigh too if that could ever work with ios.



ciara left a toxic r'ship, found a new love who makes her glow, married him, now she's pregnant and she's a ho???
future is implicated in breaking up someone's 19-year marriage and he gets props and jokes???
ciara did everything right. after leaving a bad r'ship, she adjusted how she approached the next. she learned, grew, benefitted.
isn't that what those relationship books by oft-divorced men tell women, if they want to find a good man?
didn't ciara "think like a man and act like a lady?" isn't that what y'all say women should do to get the prize of a generous husband?
that is why we should do whatever we want, because no matter how it turns out they'll have a problem with it.



if i ever finessed you and you never did crap about it then you a complete idiot i promise you
lmaoooo i can definitely name... nvm
i already know who you talking bout he a pussy tryna be my friend after i finessed his dude butt, scary butt nigga
 i'm weak, that's a lame for ya!
lame nigga ! promise you
i'm already knowing trust me



troian saying goodbye to keegan on his last day of filming is just too much. so cute!! #spoby #pll 
omg is it back on?
not yet, but i follow ashley and shay on snap and ash filmed them hugging and crying cause they're all done filming tmrw! 
ugh i'm going to miss this show
me too! except for the stupid fake out bullcrap they tried to pull every season lmao
did you get to the mid finale! i mean it gets pretty gory.



for the raids, and everyone who stopped by! y'all rock! ^.~
what game?
don't take it personally babe, it just ain't your story.
its cool. i was just curious if it was available on twitch in the future
that was the name of the game. it's available for free online if you google it. the vod is still on my channel.
gotcha. i thought you were trying to tell me iys something u wouldn't be interested in. lol



#msnbc #morningjoe 2010 teaparty came to blow governance up and they did #trump #bannon coming to blow country up #vote #hrc=critical
all contrived by koch bros. backed tea party, did gerrymandering won state legislatures, governors, etc. won house obstructed pbo!
you nailed it catherine and many of us have not forgotten,dont have selective memory,know cant fix what don't own-hope we prevail
can win senate, beverly. take 25 seats in house. we can prevail! must get out dem vote. can't have tarnished presidency-vulgar man
doing my part as much as can-we must prevail
you sure do each day. thank you for your insights!



can't stand when a gate agent clears one by one instead of going through the whole list till planes completely full.
like the lady in vegas. the one stressing out lol. i just made it home. thank you again boobs.
hahah. glad you made it home safe. did you enjoy the free drinks? sorry i texted late
didn't even drink. it was such a short flight ke they didn't even bother haha. i was just wondering though.
oh haha i was just so ready to plan the minute we took off. i felt so sick smh.
land*






304
214
omg  you didn't get it ?



happy bday! 
thank you lacey! 
miss seeing ur annoying butt
english clbutt was lit 
u still owe me a bag of hot cheetos
i got you 



bored... sleepy... can't sleep...
it's way past ya bedtime
i'm grown nephew
 stop calling me nephew
i'm your aunt
you'll say anything



last night was first night back to work since the hurricane.i'm feeling it. #nurselife
did you have a lot of damage?
i did have a significant amount of damage. still out of electricity..i was loaned a generator this past weekend. blessing!
i'm so sorry, but i am glad you have generator now!! we lost a dock and a boat in the hurricane! downed trees, but no damage to hous
awww cathie.. i hate that.did you lose the new boat?
no! boat at folly is fine!! we lost a fishing boat at hilton head!



that "i just ran down two blocks and up three flights of stairs before 7 am" oh so fresh commuter feeling!
is that a good feeling?
well, it's ok as long as you made your train.
ah i see, good morning btw. hope your day turns out well 
we'll see what my sixth grade decides to do with themselves!  ah well, done. by 2:30, then home to write two papers!
sounds like loads of fun, i kinda miss working in education, kinda don't



ummmmmmmmmm no one else is in my room and two of my books fell off the book shelve 
the ghost from the library followed your butt.
i did accidentally take the keys 
o my gosh you know how long i was looking for them!?!?!
dude i'm totally kidding i didn't take them lmfao
liar lol they're missing lol



42 second ya boi. no warm ups. 2 prior breaths
it doesn't count unless you do it in front of the current champion. myself.
hah! i've been training my ya boi's just for you bro and i want my belt back
step the  screw up i will wreck you poser
i can't wait to beat your butt to a bloody pulp, zesser
wtf it's 7 a.m. you  screwing psycho



just said he wants to poop on the floor wtf 
stop lying !!!
you're so disgusting i swear
that's you foooo all you do is crap all day 
2 can play that game
last time i recall , i didn't pose with my crap 



i am so sick of the daily whining and idioting coming from the trump campaign about the media. they're losing because america rejects him.
when all else fails, blame the media.
95% of the media is against him because 95% of the people who cover him and his campaign every day are disgusted-which seems natural
i wouldnt say that. but its reckless to foment insurrection against the media as an ad hominem.
that too. there are better ways to handle the media than attacking them. i'd give him more credit if he owned his own messes
however, this is why it's wise to perhaps not have this amount of dirt in your past if you're going to run for president



hey
hi friend 
hi how has your night been ?
horror movies with bae so it's been good! yours
that's good . good trying to get myself situated so i can try to watch scary movies with hunter lol
what did you watch 



democrats are lying and corrupt people. the race baiting is getting old, is that the best you can do? lol!
i've read your tweets. put down fox news and pick up a book and then we can chat.
i read the bible, do you?
i live in a country founded on the freedom from religion. put down the bible &amp; pick up the constitution 
this country was founded on christian values, sweetie. read your history
but our laws were not to be made to cater to one religion over another. you read it, sweetie. most of our ff were atheists. fact.



if you like mayo, please unfollow and then block me, you nasty idiot.
but you don't like tomatoes....that's worse.....
tomatoes on sandwiches are crapty. tomatoes on/in other stuff is fine.
that's the worst argument i've ever heard.
blockt!!!
dangnnnnnnn



lol my best friend at the time got cheated on, we wrote on the guys truck..he started chasing us, i tripped and broke my ankle #justmyluck
wtf
it was ridiculous  and i drove with my foot hanging out the window all  screwed up
when was this i'm so confused 
i think my junior year of highschool 
oh haha you didn't specify 



imagine if your brothers' names were something regal like stuart trackington and richard brackinson but your name was michael ringtone
add a name to the list of brothers: scooter woodshed
add another name: whitehouse giftcard
add another name: scott scalpel
the first sister! sarah hereditary
who hurt you?



today i'm following a free beer tapping clbutt offered by university. c:
you should visit me. i'll teach you how to make your own beer. nods
oooh! i totally should. i'll call it "fops lager premium" owo
foxes make ales. you can tell because "ale" and "fox" have the same number of letters.
hmmm, true. but there should also be a wheat beer/witbier made by fopsen.
well, witbier is different. but it's hard to make at home.



thank you bill gates for the creation of the xbox. you helped me find the love of my life. i am eternally grateful  #thismorning
got 2k?
nah i gotta be honest since 13 i've really lost interest in the wwe games "/
what bout nba or madden?
i want to get madden not really into the nba games
only games i play are sports and gta lol



everyone always leaves and reminds me that they didn't think i was enough
go tew bed
ok ok ok i am !!!!!
i literally tweeted u back in the middle of the night and i don't remember doing it lol
#phantomtweet
literally.. 



welp at least eric robinson won't need to file a restraining order this year
did this happen last year?
nah, but i'm aware of 2 players who can't stand a certain someone, and one almost wanted to fight that person at one point.
lol a fan?
nope.
ohhhhhh interesting.



say i don't make you smile, say i don't make you laugh?
you don't
say things don't cross your mind and make you forget 'bout the past????
you're the worst lmao
u didn't say that when .... nvrmnd
why you lyin on twitter for



del rio will take a bigger loss than all the ones his dad took on that field this saturday #goshawgs #beatuf
put money on it gay boy
bet 
$20 and i want mine in penny's so i can throw every last one at you and laugh at you when we beat y'all, again.
49-2-42 still leading the series little boy
y'all sorry not worried about it



will someone please take me to red robin i need a big fat burger in my life
 screw that sounds flame af
i promise you
but i'm broke 
if im not broke neither are you boo 
wow my heart 



hey #openstacksummit attendees. 12 months time the summit is in australia. y'all should take an extra week and visit new zealand...
it takes a week to get from oz to nz ???
if you swim, it does
if i were to try swimming it, it may take me longer than that
can help you out
arm bands  ;-)



ugh!!!
what happened? i feel 4 klay.
...just an off night...they'll have 6 or 7 of these
ok. tell klay keep his head up.
...heel be fine...just one game
. btw u do a great job on the thompson &amp; trudell show.



i have a question about wwe wrestlers, do they dress up in their wwe costumes when they go out?
i'd buttume not but the undertaker was chillin at the cavs game like if someone asked he'd be ready to fight at any given moment
and both girls with him looked like barbie dolls from wwe too idk so many unanswered questioms
one is his wife who was a former wwe wrestler .other one i think is ultimate warriors widow
unfortunately i can't excuse the choice of clothing
no, that was an awful choice of outfits...



happy birthday nick  enjoy 
 jamaurial? thanks .
you spelt my name so wrong 
you disappeared out the blue so i forgot  i tried tho
 we disappeared
no you 



i went to buy coffee without remembering to brush my hair. i did remember pants, so i win there, right?
# screwpants
i knew you would say that. interestingly, the neurologists office requires shirt and sdudes, but says nothing about pants.
so did you wear pants?
today i am. it is chilly out. i like pants. i hope you love me, anyway.
i do love you. but not your pants. 



now im hungry since i stayed up fml
i'm hungry too
im just gonna starve until morning
i'm just gonna go find something since i need to go out anyway
eat 4 me too
i gotchu 



good morning to you and sheldon. hope you both are wellhappy wednesday
good morning denise. we are both doing well. sheldon has napping to do and i have errands to runall is good with your mom?
yes very good she came home. between my sis &amp; me, and nurse visits with rehab. came home saturday. ty 4 asking. good to  from u
so glad she's home. she'll do so much better now. and you'll feel better, rest better. she sounds like a strong lady.
oh my she is. and thank goodness i hope i have even a bit of her strength &amp; perseverance. 
you do     because you came through a dark tunnel and your here, smiling.



ion know why mf don't like me i'm cool af
they just hating that's why
i guess so bruh but my nice butt be tryna give mf the benefit of the doubt cause they will say she always think a mf hating
keep doing what you doing and don't worry bout anything else

always



joey bada$$ - devastated just heard it. new favorite song.
no1 cares
basic
ur basic for tweeting me the same thing u just texted me 
so be it. the people needed to know even if i had to be basic to show them.
i learned to be basic from the best. (you)



you a good one.. what you gotta do at 5 ?
take my brother to work. that drive bout to put me through a test 
coffee will do the job 
lmao i don't drink that  crap nasty to me
i love coffee  well drink some tea then lol
that cold air gone keep my butt up 



0-1 and lost by 29....oh ard
, it's a marathon not a sprint!! the heatles got off to a slow start in their first year too!! i know you remember, 9-8!
lebron does have more rings and mvps than 99% nba combined so i'll take that
, it's too early!!!! #lebronhatestartsinmayjune
congrats and good luck on show. can't be a consistent caller but always listening
thx bro, you better call up!!!



it's been a good one
you still got 10 minutes!
i'm drunk
still! enjoy it, how old now? 22?
25
crap, you old, don't have a quarter life crisis, k!



any body know a demetrius ray allen? i have his school backpack that contained his sdudes.
you know what school he goes to ? take it to the office in the morning 
no idk
dang ...
i know like all it had was his name on some homework
where did you find it ?



fyi,  she's not even my shawty. she's my i wish i could talk to her shawty. 
well i won so @ her
i was talking bout checkers..
nah nah pay up buddy 
dude, my dog took my phone. i wasn't even the one playing!
tell you dog to @ the shawty then



i need lady friends around here that'll do lame movie and wine nights.

yes please!!!!
in on this
when are you guys free!?
sunday nights usually... monday nights usually too.



am i really the only one who thinks that tyler from #teenmomog has turned into a giant butt hat? #teenmom
he's an butthole. lazy. gosh i loathe him.
thank gosh,everyone seems to think he's some kind of saint. he's so judgemental and pbuttive aggressive&amp;his mum isn't much better!
fake, phony, vindictive, manipulative, etc. i can go on forever.
and has 100% cheated on her.
with a dude



welp cs?
let's play cs brother
just got into bed lol
 screw sleep :) let's goooooooo
meh i just got off a 15 hour shift and go back in at 8:30 tomorrow morning
well sir! that's  screwing crazy get some sleep lol



i have written far too many foo[_]s and bar[_, baz]s for a lifetime today. if only my dreams compiled! :( :( :(
making ap do what i want...[err] found   : unit[err] required: cats.monoid[_]now would cats like this as an addition (monoid[unit])?
there must be a term for this besides rabbit holing? abstraction spelunking? i need a better term to keep me awake.
masturbation. that's what my mum told me...
not even mathurbation? really? it's right there. you pac-nw people are so gosh dang coarse! ;)
i guess we just dont meejure up. 



#digpharm
"emotional connections" buttumes pharma getting in touch with and being comfortable with their own, real emotions.
lol - are you saying we all need therapy? (not untrue in my experience)
pharma needs therapy, for sure. i envision pharma as mr. cleaver. you know he loves you, but he's too distant to tell you.
just literally lol'ed in conference hall. 100% accurate.
happy to make the day a little brighter 



bruh where have you been
in my xanax dreams
was here we would take a mf lap 
lmfao a  screwinn lappppp 
yes bro connect w me soon.
hmu my guy 



how to be romantic in 4 words: i ordered you pizza
i have season tickets...
touch
you coming up friday night to the gameday tailgate? we'll be there all night long.
gonna try! depends on what games i cover friday night
we will order you a pie pizza...



lebron triple double to start the season off. didn't expect anything less from the goat
but the lebron stopper ate too
but does he average a triple double for the season???
it's not all about stats. it's the intangibles
do we need to save money to see the lebron stopper too?
i would like that



tomato sauce makes spaghetti taste really good.
no greater fact based truth has ever been revealed on twitter.



do not buy into the conventions about mpb - it is just a bromide for those who are incapable of pulling it off.



hmmm, cupcakes - have an outstanding day!



in a few months, i'll be signed w the same modeling agency as angelina jolie, auditioning for acting roles &amp; going to law school in cali
ummmmm hi hello. tell them bout your big sis hayyyyy
gotchu girl that picture you posted was fyieeeeeeeee
idiothhh put me on i'm not even joking slightly
idiot i know you're not lol i got you babe #gcrap
wtf dick comment did you make &amp; delete it



love how obamacare opponents now feign concern that a fraction of 1% of people will see their premiums increase when the old plan was "die"
"man, this is really  screwed up. i liked the old way better, when the free market allowed for premiums to increase *and* more people died."
yeah, it sucks that some peoples' premiums are increasing, but it's hard to pretend to be upset about that when you think large chunks of...
the population should have literally nothing and should just die or go bankrupt or some crap if they get sick.
sorry, back to crapty puns and baseball tweets
post your outfit



its brick outside
i've never heard anyone use brick like that 
dont judge me linda 
i'm not lmao but is that supposed to mean cold? 
yes maam
 never heard that lol i've heard it be used like "a brick ago"



anthony hamilton the truth.
go to sleep
lol i can't i'm driving 
dang g i hope you coming to get me
that's not till next month
just wanted to see what you was gone say



waiting for someone to give a crap about me
you have a boyfriend
having a "boyfriend" doesn't mean people give a crap?
it should..... or you shouldn't have a boyfriend 
hmmm. doesn't mean anyone else cares about my well being
yikes



mom : don't you wanna stay home with me today ?me : say nomo
wow
mad you gotta get up huh?
man i been up since 5am but i'm off tomorrow 
you gone sleep in tomorrow huh?
sleep in? my girl gone think i'm dead cuz i'm not waking up at all 



everyone at the bar thinks i'm hispanic
but i'm actually just irish and hungarian 
really? you look asian to me
 i think i just look white
well white is a very broad and ambiguous word haha
that's true  i definitely don't look asian or hispanic though



should i drop a single from the album this week? 
i'm actually serious about this
i never see you drop no crap lol
lol i haven't dropped anything serious in a couple years. but i'm fr thinking about dropping something from the album
ight ngh come on now.....that good for me track is dope tho
good looking. i was just messing around on that lol



just had the weirdest interview ever. it's for a interfacilty paramedic position as a side job. heard this company was paying more...
so they call me while i'm at the grocery store. they asked "how long have you been a paramedic?" a: 9 years. then they asked..
you pull up to an auto accident with an unconscious patient but the car is on fire... what would you do? i answered and they asked...
..if i could be at orientation saturday morning lol. i'm like whoa, that was quick. i'm still trying to learn about the company.
they're either desperate or were really impressed. could be a little of both with an offer that quick
yea, they need paramedics bad. they just got a huge contract with a mbuttive hospital system.



social signalling, not meant for use
use signal
nah, and so poorly.
use tor
use signal, use signal.
i use tor



anyone on h1?
lets play cs
game bores me dog, they need something new. something to freshen it up a bit :/
ya maybe i guess
that was like 3 different replies in one
haha ya im weird i know



let's talk about commuter fitness. how do these people go 25mph on an old steel bike with a backpack. is this there only excerise
it takes all the energy i've got to get up central street every evening.
in somerville i used to live in that hill
yeah i live off central just north of highland.
i don't regret moving away from that hill
i love the neighborhood but the location is subpar and that hill ruins my recovery.



 screw the politics i'm trill clinton!!
i'm trillary rodham
trilt chamberlin
trill jackson head coach lol
i'm the tall white center trill perdue :)
ws got mollywhopped by the spurs tonight -- i'm telling you picking up kd was the kiss of death. they won't even win the west bud



i nap like 5x a day
i wish i can do that :(
i literally fall asleep anywhere lol
the only place i really be falling asleep is on the train lmaoo
that's the one place i hate sleeping on ! i feel like i might open my mouth and end up on someone's snapchat
lmfaoooo i feel you  but thats why i usuallh buy coffee in the am to stay awake on the ride but when my day is over im slumpedd af



just knocked my first racist athens frat boy out.  how y'all gone try to jump me cause your girl asked to come home with me?
it's lit!!!!!!!
niggas tried to jump me 
you got jumped by some dudes wearing vineyard vine? lol
so i got up and had 5 people holding me back ( cause i'm black) and i knocked one nigga out who tried to swing on me again 
i should of been out there. i need some excitement lol



congrats to the eagles 
what happened?
you beat the vikings !!
phew!
lol just found out?
yesterday actually



what day are you coming to effie??
tomorrow
im leaving today once i get off work
make sure i have a bed and seat saved next to you!
i definitely have a bed next to us but i'll have to look for two seats by each other! there wasn't any extra by my fam lol
maybe even three seats for blaine



i'm making an alphabet thread. don't make me flop dudes!! (quotes please)
@ a wants to  screw you
@ b wants to slide in dem dms but is too scared
@ c wants to have your babies
@ d has rabies
also accurate



its a quiet day which is a good thing.
good morning pretty girl how are u today girlie?
good hunof course after saying that it was quiet chaos happened lol hope all is good with you
good morning gorgeous how are u today babe?
good. woke up with a headache but hopefully that goes away soon. have a great day 
u too baby



i literally do people favours and cover so many shifts at work and as soon as i want just 2  screwing days swapped it all falls through.
so this is relevant again. someone get me out of this craphole please.
except this time is just two  screwing hours and i can't even have that  so typical
sounds like bullcrap to me
literally every time i wanna leave early, i came in early today so i can leave early and now it turns out i probably can't 
definitely not fair



if she ain't foreign then she boring
ur a fag 
u jus mad cause you aren't foreign 
but i'm still not borin 
i mean 
you were kickin it with me tn you can't say sheit 



. hey celebrity, i just saw your political ad on ch 5! it looked really good. nicely done!
cool. i haven't seen it on tv yet.  
yeah, it looked terrific on my flat screen tv -- even better than on the little tablet.  how fun!
now i'm on the big screen. haha
well ... the little 'big screen' anyway. ha! .... see ya for brunch in a few hours. g'nite.
thank you for letting me know it was on. see ya.



my legs are so sore it looks like i jus  screwed up the butt the way i walk.. lookin like a penguin n crap 
you on some crap patch
u workin
1-5
hmu after
ight



. ask me anything about a walk to remember.
i based the walk to remember on a different walk that was equally memorable. i was with a dame. she probably was wearing a sweater.
?
the saddest thing would be if my books do not make the nyt bestsellers list. second saddest thing is a dead kid
, in the way that other kinds of -porn might also be considered porn?
i am unfamiliar with the word "porn" so i will have to let my lawyers deal with you. but yes.



so all of a sudden it's  screwing winter today?? okay. fine.
girl it's cold but not winter cold.
it was a stupid wind storm when i left my cozy 75 degree home, winter enough for me!!
hahaha. you going to uzi next week?
omg when &amp; where?!! didn't even know he was gonna be here!
yeah on monday! he's gonna be at the portage theater.



your wcw thinks ciara's a ho for having a baby with her husband.
but suppose to stay with a dude that got 30 umf kids and cheats on his fiance while she's pregnant ? 
lol right? people slay me sometimes 
and be mad at russ...for being a step dad..and that's what he's suppose to do 
smh. niggas get in their feelings over people who don't know who the everloving  screw they are.
 wanna be future so bad. wanna be in gucci flip flops and paying child support so bad 



i am so f img  sick of this ignorant treasonous dangerous bigoted sexist monster #trump breaking every rule of civil society and governance
i feel violated by trump every time i have to hear him deny he even knew his accusers-its been extremely emtional
robin i was sexually buttaulted when i was 14 have never spoken of it till this moment it's all come back the humiliation the shame
so sorry for your experience! this whole trump sexual buttault has really gotten me down
thanks and it continues every day we voted by mail then i'm off to pa to gotv in a few days
wow,have a great time!!



the most unrealistic thing about the episode nosedive is that it's public rankings and not ingroup. otherwise it's pretty spot on.
oh gosh, what if no one likes this tweet? what will i be then?
somewhere, charlie brooker smugly taps his fingers together, chuckling malevolently.
he'll never call me out more savagely than dan ashcroft.
have i made you watch nathan barley? it's required brutal comedy viewing.
i have not watched it yet! sounds delightful.



sony will establish sony imaging products &amp; solutions inc., a subsidiary that will be responsible for its imaging products &amp; solutions.
all functions currently held within the imaging products &amp; solutions sector within sony, will be transferred to the new company.
the new wholly owned subsidiary, sony imaging products &amp; solutions inc, will aim to commence its operations on april 1, 2017
world's worst april fool's joke...
april 1st is the start of the fiscal year.
i know, i just couldn't help myself.



committing a sin rn walking around with a run in my stockings 
get some clear nail polish and patch it up
girl ain't no patching this run....this jawn is wide

well you better run to cvs and get some replacement ones
yea ima go to walgreens because i can't look like this all day...and these jeans feel like baby stockings 



i wanna write a new story.
you write ?
of course.
dope, write a deep story about me and my teams come up to success.
you got it! remember you'll need a personal chef.
yes sir, especially at my most lit wedding in the world.



, you think hillary is wonderful. she isn't. but how could you know that? you don't live our lives or know her crimes.
"conservatarian" must mean that you only consume information that comes through chain emails or talk radio.
conservative libertarian. and you must be a hillary fan.
yep. because i don't get my info from chain emails or talk radio.
no, because you believe, however incorrectly, that you think for yourself. i'll bet you even think obama is a great president.
yep. i think he is the best president since the civil war not named roosevelt. because economics exist.



just remembered i was in safety patrol in 4th grade brb i'm about to put that on my resume
lmao omg i remember that 
me and raylph took that crap hella seriously with our like 7am shifts smh
i liked the lunch shifts better, you could be mean and not get in trouble 
omg tf raylph got all their names from the yearbook and was like using their names bruh
and they were like how do u know my name 



someone want to write this essay for me  any of you rad dope feminists??
down
are you really though??
i'm in women and gender studies
okay well it's due tomorrow so you better get to it 
sike, i already have my 4 page reflection on the second wave of feminism due thursday



holy fuddruckers  #americanhousewife #od
what a great episode
yeah it was so funny i tried watching the other show it was interesting
you have to give it a couple episodes it'll grab your heart strings
maybe your right i should give it a few more episodes it felt too clich
yah i like it but i'm a bit of a sappy dude



i "bodybuild" but it seems the term "bodybuilding" is waaayyyy overused now. so i never say it.
i say i lift 20lbs
u lift me when i'm down
that's cause i always got my friends back and pick them up when they need it
that u do compa...that u do 
dude we need to hangout when i'm in town. i'll probably be in town veterans day weekend



haha i just remembered that i served a plate of pasta that had a screw driver in it ????? that was frikin random
"um excuse me miss, there happens to be a screwdriver in my noodles and i'm not too happy about it"
yeah it went a lil something like that... except she was cool with it, ate the screw driver then choked and died
u murdered someone with pasta. i'm calling the authorities.
hey im just serving the ppl their foods!! im not a murderer! just a lil lady doin her job 
u r smol &amp; evil. she asked for pasta and got mouth full of screwdriver.






crap i can't even..making money
i respect it. lmk though
i gotchu bra..i told u ima link with the whole gang
just lmk bruh 
why u up?



if i ever get married and someone decides to propose to their significant other during said wedding, ooooooh, hold me back.
i don't get it
if someone gets proposed to during my wedding
u would be mad ? lol
 screw yeah, why do you need to take the spotlight off the people getting married, that day isn't about you
u knw someone who did that lol



had to block clippy. just couldn't do it any more.
i can't help but feel warmth inside, like i nudged you to do it.
angel on my shoulder!
therefore my q about hours wasted deserves a retweet. maybe even pin that crap. a journalist gives credit where credit is due.
let's not go nuts, here. i was considering it for a while.
yes, no need. already nuts.



do you ever get the feeling that somebody just no longer wants to be friends with you.. so you end up slowly drifting away..
all the time...
the sad reality of it is it happens way to often then it should.
just because nobody picks up the phone.
&amp; it's kinda funny bc everyone is always on their phone. it makes it worst when u realize they're just straight ignoring u.
like i said, my phone number hasn't changed. it's a drag but a part of life.



dunkin needs to stop dudein me and let me start working already.
apply to amazon lol
i did the other day. just waiting for an email or a call or something.
bet - i'm 99% sure you'll get hired too lol it's easy money too $12.25 too start off - after 3 months $13.50
yeah it seems easy lol and that's why i applied
tell dean too apply too lol i work there - it's dumb easy!



finally coming to terms with reality: i am not going to vegas for #phish 
me either.  but i'm doing the 2 night st. louis umphreys halloween instead. 



is doing 2 nights! i'd be there if i lived closer
- but not saturday. #phish #discobiscuits are more my bag.
sweet! you'll have a great time!! moe is one of my favs.



if you update macos to sierra and your external monitor resolutions get completely messed up, just pay $16 for switchresx app. #timeismoney
im confused on this one. why not just change the setting? seems like it would take less time than an app
i even installed the newest version that they just pushed out ... and it didn't fix so i got the app which brought it back.
interesting. ive had so many issues with those apps before that ive given them all up
i would never install an app for something this stupid ... but my options were really small text or blurry text on scaled.
fair enough that makes sense. i guess this is just the 1st time ive seen an app like that actually solve a problem :/



i wonder is my favorite deli shop still open in berkeley
what's the name of it? i'll check tomorrow or thursday
 i don't even remember lol i just know it's off shattuck in the cuts
smh that doesn't help me lol i'm from jersey, idk where anything is
aww you'll like berkeley it's really chill it's a lot of shops there
i'm living in hayward, but i work in alameda so i'm not too far from there



me and coop drinking miller high lifes playing madden ultimate team on his birthday.  screwing bros.
the pumpkin is back!!!!!
had to do it
gonna be back in br for bama game huh?!
you already know!!
uhhhhh roll tide pawwwwllll



to get the success he deserves with his music and to go as far as possible. that's my wish.
thank you alizee :)
don't even say thank you alec, i really mean it. i don't tweet about it but i always wish you the best everytime i can.
thank you alizee :) i love that photo from the show in france. made me so happy
are you taking care of the lookin like a chump book and things we gave you tho?? question i have is how did they ended up haha
it's in my safe so that nothing bad ever happens to it :)



lol @ how many dudes "owe me that pussy"
please tell me they got a gar at the crib
nope
, i gotta make a 30 min break stretch
when u go on it?
i'm thinking 1:30



chandra drunk gets on my nerves man 
hm, don't be  screwing rude! 
u kept saying the same crap over and over 
i did a lot of crap i didn't know i did til i woke up today 
your eyes were literally folded on sc and when i was at the drs office u wouldn't stop calling me and you kept telling me that
ahaha, wow. don't even remember calling you 



he looks at me like a stray puppy and i'm just like dude..... you have a kid.... and live with the mom......
i'm weak
noooooo i can't....  i always pray i have like five tables to serve when he's here so i don't have to talk to him.
he don't understand 
they never do.
not all males are the same 



honest to gosh if this placement lets me go to new york city all expenses paid i'm ready to start going to church again.
k i might go with you
lol i'd be going to work
and shopping at 2 am, getting korean food and sprinkles cupcakes with me
yeah it doesn't work like that. i'm barely gonna have free time and if i do i'll probably be too exhausted
youre literally the worst you binch



panda!!! i miss your face!!! hope everything is going well at snow!!! remember you are beautiful!!!
i miss you so much. you have no idea how much i love you. 
well girly one of these days i'll have to come down and we'll have a yocrazy date!!!
i wouldn't miss it for the world 
i'll let you know when i'm available and we'll see what we can do  remember try not to have to much fun at school 
okay boo, i cannot wait.  i'll try not too 



love seeing everybody's photos of the 1975!!! really hoping to photograph them again in november!!! 
then people started selling $40 tickets for over a $100 and i can not afford that!
i really want to shoot both dallas and houston dates!
that would be amazing!!!
it would be! yeah i hate ga shows! never been to houston but i know i will fell safer there than southside
agree though houston would probably be better than south side



"i voted for the libertariain, jeff something something" 
was that daniel? ...



"cool what are his like policies : track record? " - me "i don't really remember " - bingo
"what are his policies on legalization of weed...hmmm...oh legal, okay" *votes for jeff something something
lmao "jeff something something also is proposing the free in n out plan" "because we need to feed our daniels "



something about blonde hair and blue eyes that just catches your attention.

the homeland
don't forget about the hidden hitler switch that stays lowkey until they get mad at you
whatchu mean
they all posses an evil



avi  hey boo
wbuttup shorty. 
you're beautiful ma !
appreciate that shorty, you too. 
thank you baby girl
no problem! 



mommy's taking me
take me too
dang im just seeing this im sorry babe

wya
on the bus



i desperately need a new mackbook pro! waiting for the #appleevent !!
just got my custom made one 2 months ago
you did!!  i checked their website mafe info about it
no i mean i got the 2015 edition. i didn't know they'll release new laptops
oh! that's too bad. i think they will release the new ones with colors, like they did with 2015 macbooks.
hmmm interesting upgrade! however, silver still rocks on those macbooks.



it's so early to be ranting but everyone thinks i'm the happiest person in the world because of the way i act and how i'm always happy
like everyone likes me because of it and think i'm really nice and everything but in reality i'm like the most miserable person ever
u ok man 
i'm never ok :-)
if u need to talk i'm not doing anything rn 
i mean if you want just dm me



strangely, i noticed that the voices and "mouthing" in #dragonballxenoverse2 is out of sync.  very odd, to a point where all blame is on....
the editors or wdudever is in charge of adr, piecing the voices together.  had to bring it up though cuz its somewhat bothersome
been seeing that on footage that's out there. i have a feeling lines were recorded when the game was still being developed,
so they may not have had time to do proper adr.
agreed.  they couldve waited a little longer, but then again, players would rather hav it soon then wait half or a whole year for
the english dub



i actually studied and tried on the math test today and i still failed 
don't study like me
 screw you dick
\_()_/
i hate you fagget
u love me idiot



still waiting for 1 person - just 1! - to present an alternative policy on #syria to status quo, which clearly isn't working.i'm waiting.
#pt: critique all you want, but pushing the current track is illogical &amp; offering nothing but critique is academically immature.#syria
saw some further critiques of an enhanced u.s. buttertive role in #syria in past 36hrs.but still no alternative policy plans.im waiting.
#pt: if you critique w/o advocating some form of evolved #syria policy, you by default support the status quo, which has resolutely failed.
#pts: if you see [counter-]terrorism as the principle u.s. security interest in #syria, todays policy is comprehensively *not* working.
today's policy is not working when it comes to counter-terror because us is backing islamic extremists! what do u expect?



tomorrow is a huge day.. i'm not ready x.x;
you'll be fine 
hopefully
one step at a time :3 that's all ya gotta take. it's gonna be worth it.
not exactly a "one step at a time" thing. i'm not talking about the con.
true true. and i know. i remember. :3



sorry reip
ehat
im sorry nhi
what r u sorry for im scared
i hope reis dakimakura is him lying peacefully in his coffin
i hope rei daki wont be real



can't. feel. my. arms. 
someone call 9-1-1 this man can't feel his arms hahahah
i wish this wasn't so true haha
almost as bad as not having arms hahah
that will forever be one of my favorite memories from high school 
same  instantly thought of that when you said you couldn't feel your arms lmao



curious what everyone thinks about slack? i've always thought it could be a neat place for ongoing customer service. #fatidiotat
i use it primarily to communicate with co-workers.  never thought of it as a cs solution.  interesting idea.
i love it for co-worker communication. always wondered what a support channel might look like.
with a busy enough channel, you'd better like that popping notification noise!
i just like the idea of a team being involved for quick response rather than needing to funnel from social.
i'm all about a quick response.  i'd be curious to see how a ticket system would function in this regard.



if the indians win, i may actually have to do a pub crawl in cleveland!
i hope the #indians win today in #standingrock #nodapl :)
naturally, i should like chicago. however, i just can't stand the despicable cubs owners.
well, i'm not talking baseball. i'm talking real indians in north dakota.people as mascots = bad
that cultural misappropriation is deplorable. the situation in nd is even worse, may contaminate stuff for generations!
it's just like how the cherokee removal went down. this country has never changed.but hey, go #indians and #seminoles. #fdup



i really wanna drive out here but i'm shook. this whole other side of the road thing and crazy la drivers. madting sadting
like i've def nearly died in uber twice this week lol
lol.worse than a nyc cabbie? i know it is the same side of the road as the uk but driving in the caribbean is a suicide mission
nyc are real gs, these la ones are just a bit mad, oh know, driving in the caribbean is a death wish with all those cliffs lol
omg yes ....fr tho..the cliffs.  and the potholes feel like some kinda monster rising up from  road to bite your tires
and the whole no street lights thing in some areas. naaaaah thanks



i feel very sorry for the lambs in south america. but this isn't really mariah's fault. i trust her, i know she will go there soon.
yes it is sad. i am still not sure what exactly happened.
i don't know what happened either. but i just saw some people insulted her and don't wanna be lambs anymore. that sucks !
yes, sad. hopefully given time, they will feel differently
we'll see. but i doubt it.
you may be right



blessed.
heyyyy pig
hi
wyd
headed to work.
have a good one my nigga



i use to be on 54th and gaskill with them killas
from 74th and mac
i use to be on 64th but up the street on that 1 way lol
most wild crap i ever seen happened on 55th and international
i bet lol
yeah i be out late night too when all the wild crap happens



1.  did you use pseudonym on all emails?2.  did you every send clbuttified information via email using a pseudonym?
3rd question: doesn't this indicate u r also corrupt &amp; helping ruin the democratic party? potus, wall st controlled.
how does sending her random holiday greetings do that?  explain, i am curious.
that will take many words, far 2 many 4 twitter. let's see if i can stay awake &amp; get it written. holiday don't matter
i am open minded on this.  but i just don't see any actual evidence yet.
do u believe this is coup rather than election? is hrc being installed or elected? critical thinking &amp; logic r needed



from a paper i'm reading:"surprisingly, the scalability and performance of exim are significantly dependent on the file system."
"surprisingly"?!?!whomever wrote that: you're fired.
it's relevant but it's just "duh?"
honestly surprised that something like lmdb isn't the default backend  these days
oh for exim? fighting corruption is like 99% of writing a prod mailserver though
or at least for the operator heh



got added to a twitter list called "high-volume" and now i'm worried that i tweet too much
i feel like my sense of "high volume" is really thrown off by the number of new york media types i follow.
true they are out of control
i know what you mean though--i buttume every twitter list add is an implicit unfollow.
tbh i don't care that randos put me on lists. listen, don't listen, twitter was arguably more fun at 400 followers anyway
and hey, now that we have muting and the algorithmic timeline, gosh knows if anyone's listening.



i don't like sitting around all day  need to get my butt back in school
i can see that you need a piece of meat
 you kno i went gay gay
nuh... lol i know you, you like hard stuff and dykes ain't hard enough to satisfy you
i'm crying .. why you ain't do your 10 toes challenge
ima do it when i'm off  wyd this weekend



*ned and i listening to childish gambino*me: i don't get this, do you? ned: not really
what don't you get about childish? he's just clever word play 
"girl why you mufasa"
literally one of his worst lines, but he says before that "girl why is you lyin" but words it as "lion". plz ignore that song lol
oooooooooooooooooh!!!!! 
it's a line from a freestyle that he put into a real song that fits the beat, but is literally so bad 



trying to be more communicative with people and i'm not sure it's working out well for me.
pretty sure an awful lot of people like me better when i don't actually speak to them.
speak verbal or speak twitter?
online, mostly. although this has sometimes pertained in my outside life as well. =p
do you want some advices from me?
i don't think there's any shame in being a better orator than a conversationalist...



operation "sell low on lacy" has been a colossal failure this morning... stay tuned for operation "hold lacy and pray" this off-season.
what were the offers?
basically early 2nd round 2017 (some late 1st) valuation is what i was throwing out.
of course i don't have a second in the league i'm in with you,  and you're my only real competition at the top ;)
so much truth imo
that team is my biggest surprise.  i hated it when i drafted it last year,  and it ended up crushing.



wanna tell you how beautiful you are but you're nowhere to be found
she ain't crap
it's a song lol
liessssssssss
spooky black - without u listen to it
okay okay i was kidding dude 



to be like the 2013 lakers after 1 game. they still have to adjust.
chemistry &gt; talent, i wish your team the best
yeah this spurs team continued from where they started last season while gsw started from scratch.
i'm not a spurs fan, but kawhi leonard is such a beast all-around guy. kd needs to be more all-around like him in gsw.
kawhi to me is the mvp this season. he could've been 1 last yr if curry never improved.
true, i respect him so much. plus i heard kobe mentored him in the offseason



my take on new rule - doesn't go far enough. cup drivers will still dominate nxs. but happy they are out for chase races #smallvictories
and the dash for cash races too
yes - although most (or some) of those are stand-alones anyway
do you think this wouldve happened anyway if it was another driver stinkin it up like kyle has recently?
yes
agreed...wonder how many that call n complain today wither dont or refuse to realize it



lidia has me straight dead right now ive missed her so much



i wanna be part of this
thank you for ur bomb filming skills
dude lolllll  we gotttttt you!!!!
lol on to bigger and better things in life right



been in my mentions lol
lol ikr
lol, what have you been up to?  me just going to wrestling shows &amp; playing wwe 2k17 on ps4 &amp; getting my tweets liked/seen by tjp
nm just going to school and studying psychology and watching wwe of course
and dodging  screwboys and catfishes so many of them try to get in my dms in my social media
lol ive had a few myself i've hit the block button what do you expect more desperate guys than guys with meaning or purpose smh



it  screwing hurts to even lay my head down. gosh.
did you try taking some ibuprofen?
away. 
i'm sorry, babe. wish i could do something to help.
it's okay, babe. just sucks when i have to go to school and do things instead of resting.
yeah, i know. 



 screw shawty till that lil pussy start to fart!!!

i give no play idiot keep those hands there 
boyyyyyyyyy
wonder why this bih blowing my line talking about she falling for me bihhh betta get tf up 
do not fall. this is a no fall zone



everyone needs to read/listen to you are a badbutt by jen sincero...inspiration af! 
i have had this book for awhile now but have yet to read it
you need to! it's the best thing that's ever happened to me (dramatic, i know), but it is good lol
haha okay i'll check it out and let you know my thoughts on it
please do. i'll be interesting to hear a guys perspective.
someone told me that i should skip the first half of the book and just start after like chapter 11. what is your take on that lol?



hhsur pep rally's ain't crapur student section ain't crapur sports ain't crap do u even have spirit days besides botb ? i'm curious .
okay stop  thats wrong
your football team wins sometimes .. the only thing worth being acknowledged is your basketball,wrestling, and water polo
every sport at hemet is better then wv ?
ya'll act like we ain't crap because our football team is the best .. but neither is yours lmao
isn't *



take some alone time each morning to meditate or write or walk, whatever it is for you, just be with yourself before you start your day.
that sounds like an awesome idea. i used to write a lot before, then life happened:(
it's hard but makes a big difference! i've started setting my alarm 20 mins earlier to journal a few pages in the morning 
yeah i've been debating a lot in my mind about it. there's so much i have in my head and i just want to let it out.
highly recommend the journaling. just the act of writing those thoughts down is such a release &amp; you'll find so much clarity
thank you so much for the advice. i truly appreciate it.



i definitely don't like coconut water
it's the best 
:( it's sucks but i'll still drink it cause it's healthy
lol not everyone likes cause there's really no flavor
it tastes kind of sour, like sour milk and water combined lmao
hahahah never thought of it like that



it's october r: like i said golden state is not a lock to win it all
still no lock
it isn't like you said then lol. it's just one game
exactly so they shouldn't be considered a lock neither....
nah y'all gonna just critique everything the warriors do in the regular season like it even matters. "i told you" lmao
not at all i just think other teams can compete



due to a pending deployment with no internet, i've been forced to start actually downloading porn to bring with me like a caveman
dear lord, what 3rd world country are you being sent to?
the ocean and then the middle east somewhere and then the ocean again
bless your heart, they put you on a boat didn't they?
yes 
be strong



my last draw meet w/kids: this 15 year old girl looked through my iphone texts right in front of my friend....like bruh u dont do that....
what the... that's so rude and creepy???
it was so......creepy and the whole time she was trying to get my attention but in a very wrong way
:-( hopefully w age restriction it'll be less creepy?? like wowowow that was so invasive and over the line
i had one meet up on my birthday...and there were at least 30 ppl laughs.....
wah that sounds like fun and wow such a huge group omg how did you guys all fit in one place



i'm off today so i'm going to take like 50 naps until ava get home from school
swear you me smh
lol
already got my nap scheduled out
i'm about to roll over now...i'm tied
lol enjoy



love it and him.
who?
the zaddy outfit.
does he know this?
no... i'm shy. lol
tell him



i just started watching shameless and omg
hate that show lol
whyy
the story is like way too confusing lol
no it's not but then again i'm still on season 1
on top of it all that show is just weird lmao



u know how some ppl window shop online by adding items to their cart &amp; then erasing it all? i just did that... with taco bell. #mylifeissad
yo i got you one day on some taco bell, this broke my heart lol
btw i need to get that course number for you! in glad you tweeted me!
i appreciate that by the way
it's mc1100e - digital tools with dale blasingame
thank you 



discovered the dark side of twitter in a hashtag game filled w humor, then stuffed w antisemitism and racism. i wish for equality &amp; respect.
the same people must moonlight as trolls on my youtube vids. apparently i am jew who is working for the illuminati. who knew?!
i ignore trolls except on halloween. then, i give them candy. i learned they have their own issues and one of them isn't me.
i admit i play with my trolls. i can't help it.



my troll playing generally involves me grading their comments w/ solid advice on how to include more humor/intellect



my conference for my english is tomorrow instead of halloween. i could've stayed in vegas until monday :(
if only i didn't have to work sunday smh
 off
let me borrow some points
did you use your call sick frees? i got you i'm at 0 i think
how do i check to see if i have any?



i just bought a cheese grater off a registry for a friend's wedding. in the note section i put "i hope you have a grate time together"
soon to be (former) friend, i imagine
it was either that or a jug of syrup. the wedding is saturday so the list was pretty slim by the time i got to it today
would've gone with the syrup.
at one point i was getting them a spatula and a berry strainer, so yeah, i shouldve snagged the syrup.
wedding registers baffle me. why don't couples already have these things and why all of a sudden need them when married?



players like simmons and leonard are tough...pushes back against the soft label the spurs have
all facts, but i've never heard that rhetoric in regards to the spurs.
"too many europeans", not enough dog in them, blah blah been a off and on critique of the team for a while in hoop circles
i guess i've heard those opinions tossed around. never really equated it to them being soft though, but i feel you.
europeans always accused of that...kg himself would target euro players for being soft
true. i thought pop, david &amp; duncan were enough to disregard that label. they're "boring" if u don't know , soft is crazy tho.



wake up seeing all these hot takes on the warriors..yea it's one game
#warriors are going to miss the playoffs. durant messed up their chemistry! lol #nba #hottake
lmfao! dude i'm seeing all types of stupid crap like that
me too lmaoooooo
i'm not even the hugest basketball fan but this stuff pisses me off its like are they that slow
if they are 15-25 halfway through you could make that argument. but one game vs. the 2nd best team in the conference? hahaha



good morning and gosh bless 
good morning gerald 
morning sis
i got 4 hours, sad
tragic *your voice*
up yet??



i just smoked this cause it'll have me sleep soooo good
lit...
literally
same 
aw cheers
cheers  hope to see you around sometime soon!



really debating on applying to the prison. the pay is so good, and i already got my connect to get me in. but is the risk worth it ?! 
im on the sameeeeee boat
such a risk... like is it worth it ?
i'm sayinggg  but that check is crazy too i'm here doing a pro &amp; cons list about it
lmao deadbutt! i just finally got my man to give me the thumbs up to even work there lol.  screw it, i think ima go for it
do it baby g ! and if it isn't working out then there's always other options &amp; opportunities



nba &amp; world series champions? by way of toronto? i can't take that kind of pain.
the cubs will win it
i don't know.... i feel it might just be cleveland's year lol
nah chicago wins game 2 then 3 and 5 and wins it in 6 lol
lmao! guess we'll see... is it 2-2-3? or 2-3-2?
2-3-2. the weirdest "home field advantage"



i real life need a blunt lol
man
mann burn it lol
i'm tired
stop being a weenie lol
nah man i'm sleepy



definitely putting money on ryan. 
i would too tbh, even though i really shouldn't because east coast.but  screw it, ryan seems way stronger.
it would be a good match for sure. ryan's on a hotstreak but cosmos slays goshs for fun so it would be nuts.
i think cosmos has a good matchup against traditional top teams, but any sort of unconventional strategy trips him up.
it would be interesting to see if he could adapt to ryan's playstyle, but idk.
yeah, like, who has chun experience?



trying to be more communicative with people and i'm not sure it's working out well for me.
pretty sure an awful lot of people like me better when i don't actually speak to them.
speak verbal or speak twitter?
online, mostly. although this has sometimes pertained in my outside life as well. =p
do you want some advices from me?
... i just don't want to appear as if i'm here for my own aggrandizement either. and i do like people on here.



na dead butt i'm a do a horoscope thread sometime soon i think i got all my signs down now y'all know i been practicing this crap lmao
i'm shook lmaoo
you a pisces right???
no lol
lmfaooooo im crying what are you????
i'm kidding how you know that i purposely took my bday out my bio lmao



imy
i will be back in cc soon lil homie
like when exactly ?? 
i think thanksgiving is the earliest
alright bro 
i'll hit you or you sis up when i'm headed down



yo i got 104k my team for u
dang idk if i want that much. how much mut for it?
do u know the price of my team?
no i dont buy it. how much mut for 50k mt?
3:1 ratio cool?
ya, is it cool if i buy the card tomo when i get on? wont be on tonight.






big difference between discerning a ball/strike in baseball and fumble/catch in football.
theres more to look at in football. in baseball, a computer as you see on tv, can do it instantly.
ball/strike is a black and white call. two states. fumbles and catches are not.
black and white calls should be decided by technology. especially when a baseball is moving 80-105 mph.
a fumble and catch would be more if-then-else type deal. with lots of branching paths.



5. celebq from merriam-webster: what word should mean the opposite of what it means?(forme condone, always felt it should mean the opposite)
technically, "awful" used to mean the opposite of what it means today. used to mean: "full of awe"  #themoreyouknow
really???? #themoreiknow
really. think about it: awe. full.
: inflammable. on that note, i also contribute: infamous.
i followed the armadillo



work is way too easy today lmao
where you work?
walmart
cashier or?
stocking/inventory
ahh that's easy. if i were you, i'd lowkey finesse a bag of chips and eat that crap.



sometimes i think my mum's a bot, then not, then i think she's a bot then not
maybe she's just delusional?
i want to wait and see on this i've felt so similar but i have no proof
whenever i try to explain something controversial to her she never gets it and she's a smart woman -
i mean what kind of human can be this ignorant?
does it seem intentional? like she intentionally keeps herself ignorant so she doesn't have to actually think about things



y'all gon make me take a shot of apple crown ain't no apple crown? that's all cap
i'm gon talk that crap that niggas wanna hear. nigga drinking lean like he drinking beer
1 yeezy boot ooooooneee
how a nigga do
got me all itching and crap that's my fav part
tity ripped that tape.



i wish it was socially acceptable to meet someone and say "hey, i want to know you lets me friends"
knowing you, youd probably find a way to make that socially acceptable 
so you think i should go for it?
do it! id be friends with someone that did that!
if he ends up thinking i'm creepy will you talk to him and tell him im not thaaaat creepy?
totally!



if you care about me, you've done a crap job showing it  you didn't take chances
i'm sorry jeffery i luuuuuuv u
you had your chance
people change
i never wanted you to change!! i want the old nick back
the old nick died long ago



democrats are lying and corrupt people. the race baiting is getting old, is that the best you can do? lol!
i've read your tweets. put down fox news and pick up a book and then we can chat.
i read the bible, do you?
i live in a country founded on the freedom from religion. put down the bible &amp; pick up the constitution 
this country was founded on christian values, sweetie. read your history
ever heard of the 1797 treaty of tripoli? don't school me on history, friend



miss jaelin det much .. hopefully i get to be w/ him this weekend since we're both off ...

what lol
salty 
ima be salty if i don't see him .. c/ i know how he get
them butthole ways



i need to go and pick up my paycheck cause i been broke for the pbutt 2 weeks
wait why you picking up a check?
cause every time i try to do the direct deposit on they computer i don't get a chance cause its always busy at walmart
can you only do it at walmart? can you do it at home ?
yup.. only on they crap sadly
go to work a lil early or stay a lil later to get it done . i use to hate wasting gas to go pick up a check 



i watched "hate rising" last night. highly recommended. the corridor scene with ramos and the trump camaign says it all. #nevertrump
i dvred it. haven't finished watching it yet. was at the point where he was interviewing the second guy.
the weirdo nazi groups are as expected - it's the people who might pbutt for normal who are shocking.
exactly! the "shirt and tie, white nationalist" as the one lady put it. they have a better chance of recruiting more people.
it's astonishing anyone is that stupid and obtuse on purpose in this century.
eh, a lot of these folks aren't stupid though. it's about fear. they're afraid of "change".



pizza on the way 
bring me some
i gotchuu
i'm serious
lol so am i! i gotchuu. . i guess 
thank you



just pinned my first tweet on my profile! should be interesting....
you are so cute! enjoy your tweets.
aww, thank you so much, gail! means a lot! 
really mean it and your knowledge of music is crazy good.
oh, you're so kind! i'm just happy i can share my love of music &amp; country music with you. 
keep it up girl! 



i-i-i-i did it, all right, all right, i admit it now pick your next move, you could leave or live wit' it
we're vibin the same way rn
i'm reading the lyrics right now like its deep fam
i think i'd cry if i read them right now. they sound more like a sad book than a song.
a sad book about arrogance pretty much
so beautiful tho. deff top 5



i should of picked up 
smh
whaaaat 
you should have picked up
i didn't need it earlier 
you just never know



running on 2 hours 
do it for the crew
coming home and sleeping until my shift tomorrow..
i'm in the middle of a clopen, so i just slept in my clothes cause we were dead as crap yesterday
dang!
abd that's all day



usually i only do two days at my 4:30am job but this week it's all five.. i'm gonna die but also money
it's okay i close 6 times a week 5-1am
crap girl do work. i still have my job at costco tho 6-11:30ish usually so i get like 3/4 hours of sleep when i'm lucky 
same but you don't get paid only 5 dollars plus tips which range up to atleast $9. you go making mula
oh wtf is minimum that little there?? or wuh that's crazy but thanks i try
no minimum is $7.25.... but serves out here get 5 and $5 is already good...



yk you're an adult when you want a slow cooker for christmas
slow cookers are an adults best friend. i'd be lost without mine
i can't wait 
they're so amazing in the winter too bc everything smells nice and the food is warm 
oh gosh, it sounds like paradise, adulthood is so good 
crockpots, home decor, new recipes... i love being an adult just get rid of the money issues



kinda eire, sound of mahjong tiles while walking her hair on the train...
you are kind of creepy.
creepy.
yep, that's you.
but the media company, or can it do some magic when the full system is running too?
it can do lots of magic. your complete sentences surprise me sometimes.



how do i respond to that. lmao 
shirtless, probably. hahahahaha
well....
you did?!
lmao no! just wondering what he woulda said if i did
show me and we'll pretend. hahaha



how to be romantic in 4 words: i ordered you pizza
i have season tickets...
touch
you coming up friday night to the gameday tailgate? we'll be there all night long.
gonna try! depends on what games i cover friday night
come after the hs games.



guys will dead butt have you thinking they love you and the next minute they are  screwing with someone else.
heh?
wut
this about ur life or someone else's?
it's in general. all the threads i've read the past couple of days lol
just checking 



gs lost???
chemistry doesn't happen over summer. they'll tighten up
i know once playoffs hit it's over
fr. i was pretty salty watchin the game at work lol
by 29 tho 
i'm sayin. they played like they expected to win and you can't win games like that. crapty d &amp; for 4 all stars 100pts sloppy



my header represents me after every decision in my life

its accurate af fam
that's how i look after i order sneakers #sneakerheadproblems
facts!  and how i look when i think about the next pair when a fresh one just came in
same!!



. what b the move
crap wbuttup me &amp; cory linking up friday
aw yeah? 
naturally link up if you off
on me i'm in pa for the week
say no more we locked in






you just tryna get elon musk to retweet you like eduard habsburg did so you can gloat some more
my moment has pbutted. i'll never relive it
i retweet you on occasion. that's almost as cool
you are descended from royalty
descended from? idiot i am royalty



really wanna start shameless but would also like to keep my sanity
doooo itttt...dooooo ittttt
i already know so much of what happens though id only watch it for ian and mickey lmao
same..i watched it only for them, however they dont really appear that much at first. but i fell in love w the plot&amp;other ppl
ahhhh i'll think about it 
i should probably continue it but i needed a small break from it lol especially since college  screws me up haha



for those who don't know...luna is my dog. i woke my gramma up to sing happy birthday to my dog 
going dt this weekend?
yeah i texted you that i'm going friday
where r u gonna go?
i think we're barhopping the whole way down 2nd st lol
ok. i'll text you to see where you'll be at



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition
ik man i've been in a little slump lately and i'm trying to build my dreams back up
if you need anything dm me homie



i miss my other half. 
miss you too

stop being like this
stop being delusional.
forgot you're to good



in the last week or so i've considered moving to new hampshire and vermont. i'm so washed it's unreal.
no you're not
i'm not?!
nah. no you're not.
idk naps and price is right are two of my favorite things ever.
living a calm life ain't being washed.



finale is next week smdh
i'm more pissed that paperboi and darius weren't in this last episode lol
this episode was pretty good tho lol
the end was lol. i'm just not a fan of gambino on this show
well i'm a pure fan plus he's a genius
lol it was a good episode especially the balcony scene





you mean so much to me . im glad i have you 
i know boo

you the best 



is kawhi still a system player? i'll wait.
you know they play 81 more games right?
they're 0-1 though. if they would have won though...
personally i would have said the same thing. 81 more to go.
1-0 bruh. no excuses. it's 1 game, but the league is on notice.
but the bench is prolly the best in the league. but again. its early.



yes the spurs thumped the warriors but stop saying they won't win this or that. still so much ball to play
only 1 game smh
right bro and they saying they won't win the west etc. i mean dann
thats bs, they really needed that butt whoopin they woke now
100% but people forgot the 11 heat started slow af too but i'm sleep 
i swear i was thinkin tha same thing, just like the 11 heat



i want watch mana live
they're badbutt
i just saw they going to be in oakland!!
i know november 11!!!
i'm going to try and go 
the tickets are super expensive!! lol



someone take me to a pumpkin patch before i lose my crap
honestly been thinking the same thing. leggo before i work saturday
why am i 7-3
i work 4-8 
when do they close 
most of them around 9-9:30



hello
hello :)
hello how r u?
doing great. how about yourself ?
i'm fine thank u
what ya got going on in memphis?



good morning happy wednesday or hump day x
good morning christie
good morning maggie you at work now,hope it goes well for you x
thanks buttercup, getting ready enjoy your day
yes hope work goes well maggie x
thanks, having a halloween luncheon today on our floor. we look for any reason to good off and eat



hungry af 
lol bruce tell u about that buttwhooping i gave him
nope how bad
nigga choked lmao let me get a onside kick  and after i missed the extra point for the tie

you  can get it too real crap lmao nigga havent came over since u got maxed in 2k hahah



my heart is sad
i know this seems like it is about a boy but it's because i saw a dog on campus tonight and it wouldn't let me touch it
omg this is the same dog we saw that one night on the garage i see it every day
her name is presley it's decided and i just want to love her. like why hang out around a school if you don't like people bro
i'm currently prepping to kidnap her
i just want to feed her mashed potatoes and show her affection



it's crazy how modern presidents have this kind of celebrity status among society now
they are now literally like puppets of the country, just for show
idk i don't see them as "puppets for show", but they do have that sense of publicity you know? the famous kind of publicity
yeah
dang detailed response i like it lucy
lol i'm on 1% plus i hate talking about politics with ppl but yeah i get it like i feel like we are now voting for most fame



not knowing who ted ends up with is killing me!! almost to the end though.
what season are you on?! i'm watching it right now too
season 8 episode 2! you?
omg that's crazy! i'm on season 8 episode 4!!
uhhh what no way that is wild! bout to not sleep and try to get as close as i can to the end lol
how close did you get? hahah



thinking more today about diversity in tech companies &amp; how they could really benefit from sensitivity training. heck, all companies could.
we hear most about sensitivity training for companies interacting with the general public: hospitality, healthcare, etc. why not all?
it's not as tho marginalized ppl aren't also consumers or potential hires for companies. everyone should learn to understand inclusivity.
if a game studio is going to be made up of all white dudes the very least they could do is get trained on non white dude issues.
's company did sessions on diversity issues, as has vox! agreed, super worthwhile.
. trying to think of ways to bridge the diversity gap. people with privilege need exposure. mandatory training could help.



what climate change?
the thing that flooded you out of your house...that climate change....
co2 made that front stall over my house? please explain how that works.
the more moisture in the air the more intense the weather...simple science
then why no category 3 hurricanes hitting land since 2005? not so simple.
you should be glad they are not hitting land, they are still there, james



i finally figured out what i'm going to be for halloween so at least i have that going for me rn.
i just bought a costume couldn't think of anything diy or original it's fine everyone will be very drunk.
honestly gonna be a little bummed if you tell me it's not a satan costume
house so is a thing he like
are you gonna be morrissey?????
dang i have all the necessary physical traits for that...but nah!



tally?
no i wish,cali
girl that's where it's at
i can't find nobody to do my hair tho.
they might be expensive but it's a couple i've seen
it don't matter as long as they slay...but dm them to me please



i left my scarf there at your sisters house and you've still got it in your drawer even know
oh, your sweet disposition and my wide-eyed gaze.we're singing in the car, getting lost upstate.
autumn leaves falling down like pieces into place and i can picture it after all these days
and i know its long gone and that magics not here no more and i might be ok but im not fine at all
cause here we are again on that little town street, you almost ran the red when you were looking over at me
wind in my hair, i was there, i remember it all too well.



the ultra boost goshs answered my prayers 
the next roshes
chill that's the nmds 
boosts next
no way dawg. comfort never goes out of style
word to the homie ricky 



i need to go and pick up my paycheck cause i been broke for the pbutt 2 weeks
wait why you picking up a check?
but i think they going to fire me cause i got clbutt on thursday the same time i have clbutt... girl we needs to talk!!! 
they can't fire you for that?
they petty and don't value education like they make it seem in orientation.. my walmart petty asf 
no your manager doesn't value it but the company still does. you'd have to contact someone in a higher position or hr



doesn't forget about me this morning 
nah ima stay home 
i would love to but my mom would kill me 
i did the other day 
lmfao wow 
you almost ready?



so why hasnt the us of a added pins the the credit chip cards
some do have the option, but it's rare. seen a couple of customers at work that have to pin with their chip cards.
its just, ever since i can rme we here, the credit card by default had the pin number same as the debit  which can be changed.
usa is weird. none of us understand it either.
oh well,  cant always be on top!
true that



man they're using that "corrupt politician that has ever run for office" up the kazoo. repeat a lie often enough &amp; ppl will believe it.
that's been trump's entire life and campaign.
it has. repeat repeat and repeat again. and his sheep believe it all.
he repeats x100, media repeats his repeats x100. it's exponential lying on a grand scale.
and a lot of it will stick even after proven false. the media must shoulder a huge part of the blame for trump. huge! lol
the only good thing is if there are any fence setters anymore, it might help. msm created trump &amp; is responsible.



interesting. catching up on internal sops in the office this morning.  we've a new health and safety policy for working alone in the field.
is it to not point the lasers at yourself?
yes! do not point the lasers at yourself or anyone else.  ;p
anyone else? uncoooooool.
i actually did point the laser at myself a few weeks ago and could see a signal from the bone in my finger. how cool is that?
that is fricking badbutt, no lie



lady's, there is nothing wrong with acting like a woman, liking girly things, and having woman like mannerisms.
i'm sorry, but there are so many things wrong with this tweet.
spelling wise or me talking?
both.
well you follow me. never forced you to do so. so please if you don't like my content. feel free i won't be hurt
was never worried about hurting your feelings. just don't want you to embarrbutt yourself with your own ignorance.



would rather be eating coconut shrimp
can we get that i haven't stopped thinking about it since i saw this tweet
we have to go to joes crab shack at some point
i'm not rich
it's all you can eat i don't think it's very pricey
all you can eat????



will you bring me donuts? i'll pay you when you get here 
lol jk i guess lunch is on you and i'll get us breakfast
nope nope hell no! you always take the cheap way out. 
breakfast isn't cheap idiot
donuts is cheap asf! nigga, you gonna spend $8 at the most 
fine then be that way hateful butt



"what's the saddest why to die and still live""falling in love and seeing them walk away"  me lmaoo
i want to watch shut in
lmao let me find out if we're showing it
lmao ok fake
guillermo said ur fake bcs u didn't answer his call
guillermo fake everytime i wanna hang he's like i'm with. big head or george or with your butt



one day i will want to meet you because you are a person who adds to a person's experience - i look forward to that time
you are too kind!
i appreciate folks that are real, you are genuine in your expressions.
cheers mike!
one day we'll meet, we'll stare, &amp; then we'll drink as friends
lol. you had me at "stare"



i'm finna go do buku job applications today
apply at mooyah
girl i ain't going work there . i'm going find me a good paying job that i'm gone stay at .
lmfaoo okay do walmart or sum they pay like $9
yeah that's who i'm going do lol. &amp; some other ones
good crap



i nap like 5x a day
i wish i can do that :(
i literally fall asleep anywhere lol
the only place i really be falling asleep is on the train lmaoo
that's the one place i hate sleeping on ! i feel like i might open my mouth and end up on someone's snapchat
lmfaoooo i feel you  but thats why i usually buy coffee in the am to stay awake on the ride but when my day is over im slumpedd af



my roommate had a date with someone last week, and he said "idk, man. i took her to shoot pool, and she just wasn't feeling it, i guess."
he's pretty upset about it and can't seem to figure out that shooting pool wasn't a very good idea for a first date
that would be an awesome first date what even?????
smh..
what?! i love pool
but for a first date tho!



call ur henchmen slime
go back 2 sleep lol
lol it's 9 i'm awake already
me too haven't seen u in 4ever
facts tho last time i saw you were we doing community service  lmao
no we were at that kids house w the pool and the tent and the speaker lol



is there a reason people tend to choose romantic partners that they look like they could be related to? like, a scientific reason
it's weird, buddies.
they want to have offspring that look like them because they want to pbutt off their genes both phenotypically and genotypically
makes sense to just breed with relatives then, que no
i mean they also don't want a child with extra toes we're programmed to not want to mate with persons we have known since birth
makes sense. what about gay couples tho



love seeing everybody's photos of the 1975!!! really hoping to photograph them again in november!!! 
then people started selling $40 tickets for over a $100 and i can not afford that!
i really want to shoot both dallas and houston dates!
that would be amazing!!!
it would be! yeah i hate ga shows! never been to houston but i know i will fell safer there than southside
hahah i only do ga shows but some venues are better than others and it depends on the fans too



running on 2 hours 
do it for the crew
coming home and sleeping until my shift tomorrow..
i'm in the middle of a clopen, so i just slept in my clothes cause we were dead as crap yesterday
dang!
we had under 400



folks are mad because ciara proves there is life after f**k boys. bask in your post-f**k boy glow sis. congrats to the wilson's.
im guessing  its future's fans still butthurt that she  found a good man.and didnt come crawling back to him..
yep. that is something i don't understand.
admittedly  i dont  know a lot about her. but if she makes  russell happy thats enough  for me
exactly. i love seeing people happy and in love. i have no clue why anyone would be against that.
its an ego thing.



yo i got 104k my team for u
dang idk if i want that much. how much mut for it?
do u know the price of my team?
no i dont buy it. how much mut for 50k mt?
that's cool bro just hit me up on here or facebook
alright cool



stevie wonder need to let them braids go... once they get to the back of your head like that's it's over with..
he just holding on they gone evaporate

hey man check your dm sent you my new number
alright bet. ima text you when i get up
bet that



i think maybe i shouldn't invest in people i can't hug at the end of an evening and feel great about it.
hold on. not everyone wants to be hugged.
i guess but ice got to say a platonic hug feels great. what if i just want to hug the counter party and they can opt in? 
no. you are in a power position and many women may be uncomfortable refusing.
this is exactly what many women are trying to talk about. imagine an lp hugging you. or a federal judge. you ok with that?
i'd love it actually! i hugged 3 men tonight. i mean this in a totes platonic way. normally i agree with you 100% but maybe not here



curiosity was killing me, so i am at the bk alamo drafthouse rn, and (predictably enough) it is so wonderful i could cry.
but did you get any kool stuff at century 21
no, but wow is that building full of places we all hate ourselves for secretly loving.
there's even a brooklyn roasters in c21! (ahh i can't wait to go see moonlight at ad)
i just want moonlight to play somewhere below 14th st that isn't angelika.
i was surprised at how few theaters it was at last weekend, but think it should be pretty easy to see this weekend.



i haven't gotten nudes in so long that i didn't even know how to respond when some guy sent me one lmao
send one back lmao
lmaooo all i said was "nice"
i'm gonna get he didn't reply ?
no he replied, he even sent another one 
ohhhh well then 



i need a new back, apparently. or maybe i should just stop lifting heavy stuff.
i got a new lower back 14 years ago...
oh. i need one! or i just need to cut out that piece of muscle that i keep having spasms in! what am i, 200 years old? :)
lol. i killed a few discs, had to replace em.
oh. uh oh. from working out?
naw, lifted wrong. had a defect in my spine i didn't know about... so at a real young age, had it all fixed.



my escape ticket seller just flaked on me!!still looking for 2 single saturday tickets to escape
saturday?? booooo
friday is extinct though !
sneak in!!!
lol i'm not a pretty asian girl like you that can just walk in 
i mean  do you follow the "rave exchange socal buy/sell" on fb?



y'all, momo is the reason that i'm a hurt dude 
don't be blaming me
wowwww k 
no no no
it's okay, cause like the wise aaliyah once said "if at first you don't succeed, dust yourself off and try again"
that's right



daleks are so loud and scary, most effective alarm ever. scary as crap
did it exterminate your sleep?
it definitely did, like 12 times

lol still sounds scary
it screeches "exterminate" and does really loud shooting sound effects and it wakes me up in a panic



show: "the blacklist" this man was on the most wanted list but turns himself in to the fbi, but you'll have to watch to see why. he so smart
movie: "tears of the sun" navy go to save a doctor in africa but she don't want to leave all the ppl behind so they basically go to war.
show: "how to get away with murder," i don't have to even explain this one, you just sleep if you don't watch it but catch up on netflix.
lol i gotchu i'm bout to start watching this
warning, they have gay scenes in it! lol
lol what about the blacklist



are more than 20 teams going to stl?
i live 1.5 hours away, but don't have a team. might come spectate this weekend though if i don't get a last-minute squad.
dude if shirts are dope there i may get you to pick me up 2 i can paypal. lemme know 
absolutely! wish you'd come though so we can hang bb.
i know i know bb :( going to see bae this weekend. we're trying to come to an event soon
hopefully there are more that i can go to. absolutely can't justify flying to cali when i have bills to pay. haha



as a sox fan to root for the cubs would be like being a michigan state fan who starts rooting for michigan. it doesn't happen
yeah but michigan and michigan state are in the same conference just like hmmm the sox and indians
i want to keep the world series in the al central, shows the sox play in the best division in baseball
makes the sox fans look like fools alway rooting for their dvsn winnr. every dvsn winner since '10 has used the sox as a doormat
sox weren't the doormat in 2012 or even this year, if the sox's season ended after april they'd be the best team in the al
cleveland was 11-8 vs the sox. 2012 tigers were 12-6. looks bad to be rooting for the teams that run you over consistently



my conference for my english is tomorrow instead of halloween. i could've stayed in vegas until monday :(
if only i didn't have to work sunday smh
 off
let me borrow some points
did you use your call sick frees? i got you i'm at 0 i think
i think so



in their feelings going through a heart ache 
i hate yoooouuuu!! and yes!! i'm very heartbroken ian shame..
screaming to the top of mi lungs!!! jamerio!!!!! i wish your butt was sleep so i could have deleted it..
*jamireo but naw i was woke just in time  why you and pooh having heart surgery and crap 
man it must be in the air!! we woke up like this!!
only in your house 



so boreddd
i missed you at work 
awe  do you close thursday?
i don't work thursday  i don't get to see you until next week
what the hell  i thought you did ! ithats way too long ! 
i'll come see you on thursday 



discovered the dark side of twitter in a hashtag game filled w humor, then stuffed w antisemitism and racism. i wish for equality &amp; respect.
the same people must moonlight as trolls on my youtube vids. apparently i am jew who is working for the illuminati. who knew?!
i ignore trolls except on halloween. then, i give them candy. i learned they have their own issues and one of them isn't me.
i admit i play with my trolls. i can't help it.



but i thought dr. phil said there are always two sides to a pancake.



theres a rule. gotta be married a year before getting pregnant. slut
you been pregnant yo whole life
thats just water weight
when does your water break
when ya dick grow
i mean... every time i watch porn



*gets into an uber in costume*uber driver: " sorry i don't think i have any disney music"
i h8 uber drivers who are like this or ask weird about disneyland like stfu and drive me please
" it was a joke...i was just trying to break the ice" i literally do not want to talk i just want to go home
omg like when my uber asks me rly uncomfortable things about my job or complains about prices like.... shut the  screw up
look man im paying rn for you to drive me. im not going to complain about uber to u if i meet u at my work place so stop
i am officially not on the clock. u wanna talk?? fine. please dont make me feel uncomfortable



moving is so stressful 
where to ?
fontana!
you're going to be so much closer to me 
i thought you were in pomona?
dad lives in rialto !



post the picture!!
no stop 
do it!
on sc 
rn?
yeah



#hereiamwithher. voted for our #hillary yesterday. shimmy, tears, for my grandmothers.
well, expect a lot more tears after we end up in more endless wars.
did my part in halliburton's war. still, #hereiamwithher. says a lot : my support is not just about her gender.
i didn't like that war either....she's a george bush in a pantsuit.
i disagree. she's shrewder, and with tighter parameters. think she's right of obama, but no bush.
well, we'll see. mark my words. if she wins, we're in for a hell of a lot of war all over a regime change in syria. bad news.



just finished the last episode of that 70s show! now what am i going to do with my life??
i finished it last week and honestly i still don't know what to do with myself
like there isn't anything else to watch on netflix
no you pretty much just need to start over
ok time to watch another 200 episodes
yes that's the spirit!!! honestly it was better the second time



14 days and our president will be
i thought you were wasted man lol
not tonight im tryimg to save energy til halloween
what you on dude? dm me if necessary
im confused
dm me and i'll explain



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition
ik man i've been in a little slump lately and i'm trying to build my dreams back up
i was there my best advice is use that negativity into a positive homie that will be your greatest strength homie



i'm still waiting on all this free healthcare, college, housing, and money from the government, that everyone says us native americans get.
yeah, i could use a bit of that too
yeah, i really didn't care for paying the penalty for not having health insurance when i was laid off last year
the healthcare situation is actually better than when we were kids. but still not the best. er visits over hastings visits
man, i can't count how many times we had to drop someone off at hastings, usually in the middle of the night.
long drive to get told your std isn't a pregnancy



trying to be more communicative with people and i'm not sure it's working out well for me.
pretty sure an awful lot of people like me better when i don't actually speak to them.
speak verbal or speak twitter?
online, mostly. although this has sometimes pertained in my outside life as well. =p
do you want some advices from me?
you're welcome to offer it, at least - but i'll offer a caveat first.



my dear, my sincerest condolences.  sending you love and light.
legit thought of you the other day. appreciate it, love. how are you?
aww how sweet is that. i'm okay, wbu?
i'm okay, ty.
absolutely. still not sleeping i see.
lol, barely.



@gnoccofritto honoured that you can waste a rt on my tweets! peek at my timeline for great photos, images, art.
but every now and then there is a photo i find interesting
you're full of it i have great photographers on my timeline!
most of those people are re-posting the work of others.
some of them are dead! good luck with that! i'm very selective.
you could be even more selective.



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*
ooops
yeeeah. major fail. hubs put cat food on the kitchen floor, i kept putting dog in kitchen to save her from ear-yanking kid



i need klink
u lost huh
lost money, pride, dignity, and drive to turn on my ps4
sheesh i'm 3-0 today
i lost every match today. not 1 w. not playing unless i see "klinkypoo" on the team. need my good luck charm.
u done for the night?



today is one of those days where i wanna say " screw it", go home, and become a burrito.
be a burrito
the minute 3 pm hits, i will turn into a burrito. kinda like in cinderella. she turned into a burrito right? 
a really crapty burrito, sure.
....i kinda want a burrito now.
yeah, i'm really feeling some t-bell right now.



wth am i gonna be for hallosuween 
what's the move friday i'm pulling up lol
i actually don't know lol. my friends here going to ou for nia and them party. i can find out what the party is for you though
oh okay. you going to ou friday ?
i'm not sure yet, i might go
ok just lmk



i just watched the gilmore girls trailer and i am sobbing
legitimately got emotional i couldn't look at the screen the whole time lol
omg i had goosebumps and just so many tears especially the funeral scene!
can't wait  kinda mad i know were gonna finish it in a day tho 
same. i'm going to watch it so many times so i can find new things. i'm hoping for a movie (&amp; that it wouldn't be overkill!)
yesss hahaha that's the solution, just watch it over &amp; over



withdrawal is real smh
oh so now you complaining? interesting
you gone get this frustration or nah if nah...hush it up!!!

exactly
ctfu



how many award-winning dishes or tasting menus have cooked green pepper? probably zero.
like...bell pepper? or any?
green and cooked. tastes like the 80s.
saison did a gourmet version of a jalapeo popper once. that was green and cooked.
i mean cooked green bell pepper not jalapeno. overpowers &amp; kills meat dishes/sauce. other peppers/colors/fresh/sparingly ok
yeah, that's why i asked. it's often a filler vegetable. maybe in new mexico?



me?
mmhmm
i haven't nutted since last wednesday /thursday. i'm on lock down by bryant as far as that goes lmao. he said i gotta hold it
i know!!i wanna edge, but i know if i do imma hit the wrong pressure point and explode!
 screw that, i'm gonna edge lmao... at least i'll get a small bit of relief without nutting. i just need to stroke my dick
lol i'm scared.



welp see you tonight cleveland!! #rallytogether
you going to the game or just going downtown? we'll be at tilted kilt by 3. stop in
going to the game. and sounds good i'm not leaving till 2 tho
how'd you manage tickets this late
stubhub lol
jesus 



did i mention? im in love with switching positions wanna f**k you in the kitchenimma hit it from beside,he dontits a shame he dont 
nasty 
lmaooo stfu
no lol
you be doing the do 
never  to  screwing who ? i'll wait 



hoy tara englishan tayo! hahahahahaha
sure sure 
so what's up men? hahahahaha
like. i'm staring at the ceiling cause i'm lying down 
lazy day? get up and do something! (putahrages ang hirap jusq mali pa ata sinasabi ko) hahahaha
hahahaha . no... it's 3:41am right now and i got home from work like 3 hours ago.. 



i'm over here fighting for javale...and then he goes out there and gets banged on the second he checks in
because getting dunked on equates to being a productive player right? lol... okay
did someone recently dunk on u? lol all i'm saying is i'm routing for the guy to be a rim protector
olajuwon got dunked on, bogut get dunked on. getting dunked on =/= being bad rim protector. still undecided on javale tho
i can't put olajuwon and javale mcgee in the same convo..i don't care what we are talking about...but iq plays a big role into this
sure. i agree with that. can't agree with varejao seeing court before mcgee - even with better iq, he brings nothing to table









get tf out my bed
you get tf out of my bed
last time i checked, you sleep in my bed
brb getting dad to call upd



retweeted that
guess i gotta pick a new 2k team
more than half the roster has the catch and shoot badge. and yes the way teams perform in real life affect the video game
i'm not good at the game anyway 
i know. i've witnessed the bs. "how you dunk?" i tell you and you go underneath the basketball and shoot
i already forgot how to dunk tbh. i get good at it and then forget



discovered the dark side of twitter in a hashtag game filled w humor, then stuffed w antisemitism and racism. i wish for equality &amp; respect.
the same people must moonlight as trolls on my youtube vids. apparently i am jew who is working for the illuminati. who knew?!
i ignore trolls except on halloween. then, i give them candy. i learned they have their own issues and one of them isn't me.
i admit i play with my trolls. i can't help it.



but agreed on the advice.



all have a theology, what we think to be true of gosh, &amp; a creed (written or unwritten), what we say to be true of gosh. what informs it?
excellent question. what do you believe the answer to be?
sola scriptura.
i believe it to be the objective truth. (not my interpretation of it) but it stands safely outside my subjectivism, &amp;...
it's what i keep going back to. yes gosh reaches thru to me by experience &amp; other means, but scripture is my home base.
like the bumpers in a bowling alley! 



good morning #cowboysnation 

hiiiiii
what up sick
i'm better dang it 
 about time



good morning.
yawns. hands you coffee
&lt;3 ::purr:: how you doing this morning?
good. trying to wake up. how are you?
about the same, it's early here. :) i hope your day is a good one though.
awww. hope you day is good as well cutie



so these girls got suspended.. lol next time anybody says the n word on twitter or snap is getting snitched on by me to their principle. 
regardless of race. yes i'm tf petty bc those girls did not deserve to get suspended when all y'all say that word on the dang daily !
i don't say "nigger" on the daily....
aye! thank you for not using a derogatory term to your friends and not cry abt it when white people do in the same manner 
people are saying a word that their ancestors used as they oppressed, enslaved, and raped african americans. it is not the same.
that's exactly it! so why is it okay for black people; the same race that the slur was used towards in every derogatory way,



i'd like my 28 dollars back
coulda hit me up i'm good at that crap
 screw really i want to die idk if it's just  screwed bc of the maker or bc o built it wrong :/
tbh i've put together all my ikea crap by myself so... next time hit a girl up
 screw ok i woll i might need to buy something else to build n like im bad at it like i cant even put lego things togeteher
girl i got you



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*
ooops
dog cleaned cat's bowl. this went on for a couple days before the cat sat on my head and made her complaint clear



i'm 25 and never been to the pumpkin patch
let's go
i ain't gay
we can double date
i have no one to date josh
yes you do



for the record and i have not and probably will not ever smoke crack
probably
what
you said you will "probably" never smoke crack and i thought it was funny
i don't know the future man. who knows what circumstances i will find myself in.
if you ever find yourself in a situation where you are about to be a crack fiend message me i will help



bestie bestie 
yes bestie bestie? 
i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you
no dude i miss you! it's not even funny anymore 
when you come down sleep over? have some one on one bestie time? 
yes for sure it's been way too long 



i've had four bowls of cheerios this morning ama
uncomfortably full? can you feel your cholesterol dropping?
no and no, sadly.
darn! i will record these notes for research
note: i use 2% milk
i will need to find subjects consuming with skim and non-dairy. the soy milk subject () does not report either as well.



what's all ya sext beasts up to tonight?
gettin' old!   what, it's a hobby.
whaaat not writing while getting old?
i've been slacking, true.  world needs more text of muscle balloonification, really.  it's my niche.
yes your work makes the world a better place :u
i've gotten some thoughts from your work in that regard that i really need to type out, one of these days.  thanks!
aw thanks!



wish i could memorize stuff after reading it once smh
that's because your mind doesn't care about what your reading lol.
it kinda does and it kinda doesn't because i actually find this stuff that i'm reading interesting lol
we'll see it's not 100%. yeah best way to memorize stuff is like review notes like an hour three or four times a day.
yeah i need to start going over my notes at least twice a day i just hate studying lol
it sucks man but itll be worth it.
it does but you're right bro it will be worth it at the end!



i finally got mystic messenger &amp; i'm obsessed!! 
yay i am so glad you got it!  i love that game!!!!
what routes have you played?
so far i have started zen, i have completed 707 and jumin.  i have to start zen over because i am so many days behind.
i have 2 days left of zen &amp; 4 for jumin. i rlly want to do 707's bc he hilarious but i heard his route is best saved for last 
i couldn't wait i just played it!  707's route gives a lot away about the story.
haha that's how i felt about jumin - i couldn't wait, i just bought the hg! gonna try to hold out on 707 &amp; hope it's worth it 



i think i know what i'm gonna dress up as this weekend 
you're grounded though ?
they can't stop me 
&amp; you said "honestly imma stay home saturday night" you gonna get caught up
 me get caught up? psssshh yeah right, lol i'm not gonna stay home
i know you cant stay away from a party 
 yes i can wth lol smh whatever bye!!



so, so you think you can tell heaven from hell, blue skies from pain.can you tell a green field from cold steel rail?a smile from a veil?
i have a pt that shaves his eyebrows &amp; reminds me of the wall.... #psychissues
oh wow! that film still gets me. been in my head because of the election and how close trump is to being a fascist.
it's a clbuttic for sure! a clockwork orange too! those 2 movies' metaphors sum up all of my fears for this country!! 
yea it's roger waters and kubrick territory and it freaks me the  screw out!
exactly!! some crazy foreshadowing crap right there!!
i just hate the nazi rhetoric and #kkk connections this campaign has conjured through trump's camp.



anyone wanna help me paint my room?
ya
bless up for the saint inside you.
when u tryna paint ??
now?
actually ??
no i have to work at 7 



thanks getter for a great night :)
lol still can't @ him   plus he's still a dick
hes still a dick and i dont wana @ him anyway but credit where credit is due and i genuinely enjoyed his set :)
did he really throw down?
no forreal it was fun. lots of zomboy lots of snails
when u put those 2 together you're bound to have a good night maybe i should go to one of his events
i recommend it. he briefly played some hip hop luckily i had to take a crap just then :)



i want you all to myself i swear.
but this dick for everybody
whyyyyyy are you always bothering me 
umm do you know what your face looks like
what does it look like 
a  screwing gorgeous time
 thank you but i'm not about play w/ you.



guess what son...
what
remember the other day how we was taking about how fiya my phone looked without a case
that idiot shattered huh? lmao
yea son
"imma put a case on it soon" they said
 screw you



please gosh don't listen to the song "entropy" while doing thermo hw it'll stress u out the chorus is "calculate the entropy" im not even
how's the pset this week
wrote a stressful physics song
i'm gonna check it out brb
 screwen warned u
it's p catchy
now put it on repeat and do this week's statmech



edibles will ruin your life

ruin

they're fun though lol try one
i don't do drugs
i know what you did this morning



wya broda
at the house man. wbuttup
i was trynna see if you trynna burn it. but you ain't in town :/
crap id be down but i just got back to the house lol i'd say slide but i know that's a mission
if you change your mind hit me lol i got 2 blunts
ight i'll hit you man if i head that way
if not tomorrow when lugo cuts me lol



2 more days idiotes
 screwing lucky butt
youre not going?!?
no dude i wanted to do  screwing bad ! but i can't i need to save money lol everyone is telling me to go but to much money already
what am i gunna do without you
 we where supposed to turn up before you leave to basic training! hey but i know someone's you like is going 
im upset. you my turn up buddy frfr &amp; who dat



why are you still up. get sleep. dam
wat time is it there?
in north dakota, usa it is 1:54 am
sorry for busy with my work.its 1606 in china,same district with shanghai
so dinner time. wish i could eat real chinese food. not what get in the us
haha,what kinda chinese food do you like?and wats look like in us?
we have general to chicken. which isn't even sold in china. it's good though.



finally omw home cant wait to get on my bed
that's how i be feeling b trust
i feels u b lol
i don't get home till like  2 or 3 in the am 
dangn lol
two more days b 
littty



im not  screwing perfect
no one is
huh?
no one's perfect
ik that but that's what some people won't and you can't achieve that without working to attempt to be perfect
sad but true 
they don't want you while you grinding /:



"i believe that loss and emptiness and confusion often give way to new fullness and wisdom."
i just love this who said it

wait really? so how come you had to put quotes around it why didn't you just state your belief asking for a friend
hahahahah you caught me ;)
lmao u r fakebut ily
alright but our date tomorrow is off gn



hi
call
no monitor
i meant on ur phone
no phone
okay  screw u was gonna send u this new monitor i just got, but i guess not.
im sureeee u dont like me anymore



i'm trying so hard to keep my eyes open 
go to sleep
i need to! i slept like 3 hours last night 
random butt eye emoji but whoa three hours who are you
i know!!! midterms is killing me  i'm going to fix my schedule starting next week 
nah you good
your twitter name is accurate




ugh yes 
i cant wait :-) i don't have a costume yet tho 
i have to make mine still 
help me paint my face n b lazy?? not only did i hear you were braid queen but also makeup 
yes of course!!!  i got u
thank you so so so much 



how do you feel about pll ending
lmao i chose the first one cos i rlly haven't been catching up like i said i would lo
but omg the snap of keegan and troian hugging and crying killed me
is it their last day of shooting already?
today was keegans. i think tomorrow is the last last day? like almost all the sets are gone
oh man i crey i just watched shay's snap they were all signing yearbooks and everything lol
yea lol and they got errbody jackets  wonder if lucy got one... hmmmm  lololol



you can name your dumb kid alfred or edward but i can't name mine thelbert, rdwulf, or angeltheow? anglo-saxon double standards suck!
my second is actually edmund which is like halfway there.
edmund is a good name. lot of good edmunds
hillary. i dig burke. the bastard.
big fan of edmund, the earl of rutland who died in like i don't know 1458 or something
wasn't he a big ol jerk who was set to be king but then got himself killed in battle? cause a lotta edmunds are like that.
he was cool but yeah he did get killed in battle. and his brothers were both kings, so maybe he would have gotten around to it



it's intimidation, bullying and str8 up hate speech. but of course it's not cuz well... you know!
bullying? standing up for the rights and health of our community is bullying to you? pathetic
again, not at all what ur doing! the house is burning &amp; ur worried about the outfit!  this ain't about you
the house isn't what's burning, it's your justifications for supporting an anti-gay ticket.
trump isn't anti gay! u keep believing what you want but remember, were still #gaysfortrump!!
while you sit out the fight supporting our lgbt community, you are welcome that the lgbt majority aren't.
do u even see how self centered you are? you think ur the community? gays are so much more than sexuality! sad



boulder council study session now on to pollard site (boulder junction)! just to explore scenarios to develop an rfp.
city owned lot last in phase i, chance to fit in but also fill in some gaps
current boulder junction development units - 91% are two or less bedrooms
(which seems fine unless you have more than two kids? every unit doesn't have to be a forever unit)
coburn says costs to build now $347/sq ft without land costs!! (but large infrastructure costs with parking)
discussing now the parking max 1 space per residential unit; but debating rather parking spots are truly unbundled.
so incompletely unbundled.



i have some pretty long snapchat streaks, but i'm most proud of my timehop streak.
our streak broke 
and whose fault is that 
yours!!!
i disagree.
 i answered! i think it was your fault!
you're making up stuff



i dropped my phone again today and my crap is so  screwed up and if that doesn't describe how pissed i am i'm not sure wtf will.....
is that why you didn't text me back?? lol
totally forgot hahaha you should know how great of a texter i am!!
a++++ texter!!! dm me why you said that tho
i'll text u when i'm off my phones on 37 :(((
12hrs later.... 
hahahaha i was sooooo agitated and i saved myself the hurt bc i knew you weren't gonna text back bc u weren't even awake



about to be in the city for 5 days 
who care ugly mf
i'm staying at y'all house 
that's what you think!!
make sure you got some koolaid and snacks in that idiot 
boy!! you will sleep in the bathtuband no!!!!!! i'll make sure everything is gone
 you got me  screwed up i was gone get everybody food



jordan's  screwing retarded
i'll beat your butt 
i'm waiting
i'm near the gym fight me pussy
be there in 5 min idiot 
going to the teachers lounge
i'll be waiting



i don't want to get my hopes up 
girl 
yeah 
idk how to feel about it  only because i don't want you to get hurt again. just be careful
i don't know how i feel about it either !!  and honestly i know i'm putting my guard up y me conoce tan bien that i'm like 
has he given you a legit explanation at least?! i'm curious to know
i'll tell you guys everything on saturday !



my sister needs dummy punted into a pile of cow crap.
uh oh, which one?!
the older one but the younger one could use it too
 i feel that way about most of my family
the struggle is real 
i just keep rereading the original tweet and laughing way too hard lol
hahahahah don't pee yourself this time 



okay i made up my mind...no more eating out for two weeks, and i'm saving all the money i can lmfao
u sure u been saying this smh lol
watch 
show me then 
i'm two weeks
and if u do eat out in those 2 weeks 
i'll buy you some food too but what if i don't 



whatd you get in 351
82/100 let's gooooooo woooooo !!!!!
lol how did you do on the test
omg sorry i thought i replied to your other tweet already xd i got 84 *-*
i think we deserve froyo . but i'm still so full lol .
lool im hungry xd
we should make smores sometime lol



do folk even know nor care jane?
i think young people have been raised to feel guilty about their middle-clbutt life instead of being raised to try to achieve more
it's a cop out jane. back in our day we would get the crap kicked out of us. now, parents pacify children.
switch or hand jane....choose!!!!
when i was young, i got the switch.
yes, as did i. and it hurt like a mother  screwer!!!! i still have the marks!!! but, it made me the good man i am now.
sometimes jane in our lives we have to take pain &amp; hurt to try to  convey a message.



"daddy's waitin' for 'ya, little girl""shut the  screw up man"
which one is this
freddy's dead
does he drive a bus at the start of that
yes,
ifhdg i had that movie on vhs
lkjds im laughing oh my gosh



isn't she sleeping?
yup she is 
i thought so
go back to sleep..it's still early 
ok bye love you twin (the most) 
hdjkgdydmyyndy i love you the most! 
 we can talk about this later hahahaha ok i'm not going to answer anymore



mom is making steaks and hash brown cbutterole tonight.. i picked a good day to visit 
me too!!!:)
not invited
am too ron said
well you have to watch survivor with us
perfect
and you can't make fun of us for getting super serious about it



im watching this joseline hernandez vid still mad stevie j talmbout she fakes bein puerto rican. yall always do that to afrolatinas.
stevie j &amp; the rest of yall such ethnocentric trash u cant even tell joseline hernandez raps in spanish in an unfakeable rican accent.
as usual its a bunch of ppl who have no clue wtf being rican or dominican is coz they not latinamerican. but swearing they can invalidate
joseline hernandez speaks a whole nother language like a latin-caribbean native: spanish. but u talmbout shes faking bein latina  coz black
ppl are not only  screwing oblivious to afrolatinas context, they can literally see us in the thick of it&amp; dunno how to process it. still deny
'her real last names bettencourt so shes not afrolatina'. do u ignit buttholes know how many bettencourts there are in latinamerica?
every single bettencourt i ever knew has been puerto rican. every single one



me &amp; borris were play fighting &amp; i accidentally punched him in the mouth 
that's not nice...
it wasn't my fault. he needs to stop play fighting with me 
don't get to serious cousin haha
i know. i felt bad 
gosh haha. you hit him with that left or right? haha
right



please keep my dad in your prayers. 3rd time called down to the hospital this month, hoping this is the time the transplant finally happens.
surgery is on! please continue the prayers, now comes the long part! gosh is good.
i'm at the hospital. dad's surgery started around 2-3 am. please keep those prayers up for a tough 8-10 hour transplant. gosh is good.
praying so hard man! im happy for your family that he's finally getting the surgery he needs.
thank you so so much! we're praying hard down here!
what hospital are y'all at?
henry ford off grand boulevard in detroit



working on a 40 word summary of my thesis. pretty sure i can make a limerick out of this
a man named tim had a bucket
tim found himself at the market
talking to peeps he'd just met
he'd look at their phones.which of course everyone owns
and found they couldn't live without it
++ took unexpected twists and turns could not believe the ending would thesis again ++



guys will dead butt have you thinking they love you and the next minute they are  screwing with someone else.
heh?
wut
this about ur life or someone else's?
it's in general. all the threads i've read the past couple of days lol
just checking 
 thanks for checking lol



i heard someone saying my name but no one up 
that's scary
it's the devil
maybe it is maybe it ain't
we could never no
don't worry gosh gots you
amen



just had one of my worst breathing attacks or whatever you want to call them. it sucks having to gasp for air.
panic attack... welcome to a daily struggle of someone with anxiety
it's not a panic attack for me. it's a cold attack basically. you know my situation it's one of those situations 
no i'm so lost
you were at my house when i had one where i can't breathe and crap just hits me all at once. and i need my inhaler.
i've never witnessed anything like that. 
you were there but it was ocean who tended to me. that's why i'll forever be in her debt 



i really don't know how i'm going to be up for my 8am tomorrow
i really dont know how ima be up for my 12:45
11:45**
well, my day will end sooner than yours !!!
yea but at least ill still be in bed by the time your day is done
ur dumb bye
i know you are but what am i...



honestly this month break of not playing shows and staying in making music has been so  screwing awesome and productive v much needed
same dude. i was bummed i had no gigs for a min, but it's actually hella valuable studio and chill time
i think i chilled to hard i forgot i djayed lol
good lol
i even feel good too it's awesome
i got to spend time w people i never see, spent time w my cats, made dope music, read comics and watched movies, craps good
lol i just got to play video games see some of the homies shows work on a lot of tunes and eat good with my family



niggas really dont have crap to offer but dick and headaches . you cant even put air in my tires
who cant
half of ya.
im not wit that half lls not at all
you know where the antifreeze go ? can you change a flat tire ?
im not a mechanic but i can get it done. thats simple crap
lol okkkk i hear u 



sick af but can't afford to miss work man  i'm so dang sad
you can miss one day. you need rest!
that's 8 hours gone down the drain i don't think i can let them go
 what's more important? plus it's not like you're broke...
 okay "mom"
lol it's the motherly instinct in me  but frfr, get you some rest so you'll feel better
i can see it  i guess i'll make a doctors appointment 



seeing all the sorority houses with halloween decor really buffs my holiday spirit
wait which houses have you seen?
wtf idk just look for the greek letters lol
you should decorate! isn't sheena doing a carving pumpkin thing?
i'm so busy rn tho d:
i literally see you on discord playing league
ya mom i played league, hop off 



lol bye world i'm about to me murdered for being a  screwing idiot. it was nice knowing ya. 
what did you do??
i can't tell anyone. it's so dumb i'll probably lose all my friends
you better tell me  #textme
lololol you are swarm to secrecy like literally no one can know
bruh how many times have you sworn me to secrecy!?  i know the rules
i have like a couple things to tell you but we'll just start with the stupid one



all the tv shows are on an hour early in arizona. it's so confusing! 
we are on the same time zone right now though
i know! and that makes it's even more confusing! but i missed "this is us" because it was on at 8 not 9.
eww!!! does she have dish tv?
comcast! but i swear it wasn't like this when i was here a month ago.
interesting hmmm
yeah. no idea but it's confusing.



so the line up for clbuttic weekend is blac youngsta, jeezy, gotti, gucci and lucci....
when is it?
weekend of november 18-20th
sounds like the get down
every year
might go this year
you shoulddddd, hotels cheap rn too



i have 7 ongoing series right now. i distinctly remember telling myself never to have more than 3 going at once. apparently i didn't listen.
the question is, do you want to listen?
i want to be organized and have order in my life! :)
then stop working on a few? xd
some will be ending next year for sure. it just surprised me when i stopped to count them just now.
haha, so too far in to just stop, huh?
yep. i'll be doing a bunch more standalone books next year. no plans to start any new series.







hiii 
hello
bdi mushkil se online aate ho
yup ... busy busy
where where 



out here in the club in full on patriots gear.. random: hey dude are grownkowski?me: nah fam... i'm drunkowskiwild
why are you such a disappointment.....
it's what i do best 
that's why your idiot butt got left 
sooo happy yo idiot butt is back though 
luv u bae 
your the wind beneath my wings 



to me this girl alliance is similar to hayden/enzo/lane. they have their funny moments but boring to see them run the game. #bbott
and theyre def not, or else lnj woulda left the first 2 weeks
what are you babbling about? nothing comparable.
that the brigade got non allies out the whole game, even their side allies only had one loss
fool, this is a different big brother! doesn't matter who wins hoh. #bbott those girls are sticking together. girl power!
you're clearly confused. i'm fully team ballsmashers. i'm saying they're not boring like the brigade
my bad!



my birthdays next weeek and im not even juiced or anything 
turn up 
my birthdays on a tuesday:(
even better!!! turn up on tuesday 
i just wana have like 2 bottles and 10 blunts tbhh but i cant , and ima have a crapty as birthday:( its been a crapty year
why can't you? as long you spend your bday with friends it's all good have fun drink and take a shot for me and go smoke
youre forgetting that i live in tracy now i cant just go out there bc i have school that day too  and ughh ima get pee tested 



good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ill see you tmrw!!!!!!
wait what raves are you doing this weekend
not the same raves as y'all but lauren said we were pregamning together and ur coming to the edm brunch
i will be there with multiple $2 bills ready to go 
things im so here for



but i just have to get the fence done before this weekend &amp; she can move into her huge new house &amp; big yard w/ pretty trees
what where you moving to now girl? lol
cantonment
oh to maw maws ?
no. i'm moving into my great grandmas old house
i'm surprised you didn't wanna stay in walnut hill
not with me working all the way in marcus pointe. an hour drive to work every morning? no thx.



thinking about turning my phone off while i'm in puerto rico on holiday, but idk if i can commit to that....
try it for a day :)
i thought you were!
heheeeeeee! social media gives me anxiety hahahaaaaaaaa but i have to check up on you.
text me some time :)
okay :)
good bc i miss you



definitely didn't go to english to get an extra hour of sleep. yeah.
if you would have went to bed at the time you said. you would have been fine
you didnt have to come for me like this. its the first time i ever missed this clbutt. wont happen again dang

i really tried to go to bed at a reasonable time but what had happened was.....
i'm about to text you
ighttt



morning paddy listening from florida today. how is buddy any different then danny williams when he took down the flags???
down with ball was ya kirk lol!!!
hell no ball sucks was hoping for a better outcome full shut down
ya, this project is a mess
not fit it's not biggest waste of money and watch i bet hydro quebec will end up with it in the end
probably, probably be better if if they do
quebec will end up with it for a trade like they said 100mgwts and the big land bet it's been considered



i'm so excited for this saturday
and speaking of, does anyone want to go for a hike on saturday morning? please be advised that i am in no shape whatsoever.
i'm going too, ia! :)

what? i really am. be happy for me. 
okay buddy
hope i wake up in time tho.



it's okay, you're all talk and no walk. get over yourself 
tag em no balls
can't tag them, i'm blocked 
 looks like you win then
nah. no winning in this situation, i'm still annoyed by it. i'm probably the loser 
if they block you it's a win. always 
i'll try to think like that 



i think i'm done with twitter and trying to fit into somewhere i obviously do not belong.
you belong where ever you want to be pup. *noses*
not really. i don't belong anywhere. and my constant trying to fit in...and failing proves that.
then don't try to fit in. just be yourself, because you're already awsome. ^^
alfa, honestly there isn't a single shred of good in me.
yes there is. you may not see it right this second because of how you feel, but it is there and i see it.
alfa, what little good you used to see in me is gone. finished, used up and never to be seen or heard from again.



hello from the pool bc i don't have my key
you don't need a key to get into the hotel just for your room loooolllll guud luk
i walked all the way up to the room only to realize my wallet wasn't on me smh i'm so upset
to the rescue #probablysleeping
nah i can sleep outside i'm used to sleeping outside
i'm scared for you.
there was a frog out here he'll protect me



i paid $600 for sneaks, so baby watch my feet...
yu getting them 3's?
ykt.
mane im tryna get that
i know, moms told me.. what's stopping you?
she aint gone be able to go inna store &amp; if she get it from the person it from price 
well you go get em...



romanuk can be such a moron, andersen also had a defence that didn't turn the puck over every shift!!!! #tmltalk
how many shots has he faced today, we've out possessed tampa by a mile, andersen is blatantly bad right now
that's your opinion,it doesn't matter how many shots there are,it's the quality of them,and mistakes by our d are very bad!
it's not an opinion it's a fact, his positioning, movement, etc... he's not playing as he did in anaheim, reimer wouldn't
it's not some surprise that andersen's not playing his best,but he's also not getting much help,that's very clear #tmltalk
each and every time, you think good teams don't give up 5-6 high danger chances a game? the lighting did, bishop answered
ok man,we have different opinions on this,i don't deny he's let in goals he shouldn't,but also not getting much help from d errors




mann i been tryna see ha .. tell niya her mommy playin 
wyo today or tomorrow you know where i star i moved out .. 
watever when it comes to neicey i'm free both days really &amp; yea i'm up on game already
okay you can come see her or keep her for some hours 
ima come over then take ha wit me 
ight come thru tomorrow gball , my mom wanna see her 



the fact i gotta work in the am
carry yo butt to sleep
 screw up
lol i'm good
you not good nigga
lol you heard what i said mf
lmao relly you don't scare nobody 



"zero percent" is the best mcr b-side no argument
good post
makes me feel like i'm in a vidya game 10/10 would recommend
it's okay but (drag me) tbp's b sides defined every aspect of my emo butt adolescence
nah i fully get that. kill all my friends + heaven help us are iconic
2 iconque
also the rap in my way home. gerard speed singing is aesthetique



can i just sleep thru one  screwin night?!!
new one for me last night, kept waking up not breathing feeling like someone was suffocating me so that was cool
oh yes that's my exact issue!! only happened twice last night, so it was a "good" night.
nothing like waking up refreshed !! and by refreshed i mean like i haven't slept in 3 days or months
my eyes are burning with sleepiness!!!
maybe the water main will break at work tn
is there a way to like make that happen or...?



after we trade for boogie straight to the finals 
false 
we bout to reclaim our thrown in the east
did you forget about who is still in the east ? 
can't forget him but his time is over
his time not over till he retire 
na it's over after we get one more all star



the art style of dbz combined with the animation of db super would be lit. i just hate the modern art style on db super
i wish they would go back to showing blood/cursing, instead of being a kids show lmao
that would be great but they'll lose out on money and viewership
thats so annoying though. thats how the show was from the beginning.
i know but the show came out in thw late eights early 90's. censorship wasn't as strict as it is now smh
the  screw censoring cartoons and art in general should be  screwing illegal  screw
i agree to a certain extent. they should have a channel dedicated to adult themed cartoons. like adultswim but its own channel



hi lady ... how was your first night back at work???
it was good deb, thankfully my work is mental, not physical, plus they hired 2 new girls 4 my shift, so it's easier, less alarms
yay!!!! i'm soooooo happy for you 
feels good 2 be back &amp; not sitting on my butt at home. now i'm sitting on my butt &amp; getting paid for it, lol thanks deb, how r u? 
lol i can imagine it is very nice for you!! i'm great....just enjoying the  &amp; my cubbies in the world series finally 
my husband &amp; myself are both rooting for your cubbies, tom loves how they all sing the cub song after a win!!! 
awww yay!!! we need it!!! i live just a few blocks from the stadium so you can imagine the excitement around here  



fans like me have enough loyalty to this team to endure rf's conservative approach to rebuilding but i don't think the market can sustain it
there comes a point where i genuinely wonder, do the #canes care about fans? wrt the on-ice product, it's not just a team, it's a business.
canes are one decent goalie away from being among the nhl's best young teams.
then we need to find that goalie. the fans were not happy abt ward's resigning &amp; they won't be happy if we blow the home opener
exciting doesn't cut it if all we do is lose lose lose.
this market needs playoff hockey badly. perfect time for it, too: state sucks, panthers suck. we need something to believe in.
canes are a playoff quality team at fwd &amp; dmen; both goalies would clear waivers



ok 
hi pal
oh hi buddy
how are you doing?
sleepy and missing houston are two constant feelings. how are you?
i feel you on the first one and ready to meet the little one soon.
yes!! you, your sweet lil lady, and ryan need to come visit! we have plenty of room for all of y'all to stay!






been going! wanna play tomorrow and do some faceits?
yeah. i get done with work at 8am, so in 6 hours, then i gotta sleep for a bit, then i'll be good
ight sounds good just let me know when you're up tomorrow i can get some scrims and crap.
what's the team name
don't know yet.
how good are the players



might have to hit up mod pizza. it sucks that it's all the way up north though.
is that place good?
it's really good.
hmm ok lol imma have to try it!
you should. it's definitely better than pizza hut or domino's.
whatchu get?
the mad dog. it has sausage, ground beef and pepperoni on it. plus i add mushrooms.



what's the move
match 
wya
crib i need some though i aint got it
i'm on 21st
me too link up
i'm not mobile but wbuttup



good night karen 
good night terri, sleep well 
still wide awake &amp; got to be up in three hours watching cher on youtube 
i'm wide awake cause i'm at work, keeping the world safe &amp; saving lives, lol 
were are you working
i work for an alarm monitoring company here in nj, it's only 2 miles from my house. we are open 24/7/365 
how do you stay awake all night don't think i could do that job every night.



kawhi is the best player on the court at this current moment
mvp year
better than your girlfriend westbrook
if he keeps playing like that yeah
no hes just the better player in general
chill thot
calm down cp3 is still better than westbroke



my friends just reminded me that there's a horrific picture of me blacked out at an after prom from high school somewhere on the internet 
i have one of u pbutted out in ur own car while me and lashayla went to steggs
i'm just trying to live
i wanna live with u
bishhh u livin more than me i miss you and your friend from the party the down butt idiot
you don't invite me to hang anymore
it's midterms week :-(



i dont know why ppl study geometry
loool i like trigonometry tho
i like algebra.. complications ..im good at that
algebra is love
replace pizza with algebra
biryani
 wings &gt; anyday



hello how is everyone doing today?
don't act like you have friends on twitter you're talking to...
if i don't have friends then why do so many people follow me huh
spam bots. also no big deal or anything, but i have a few more followers than you...
i've lived in one place my whole life so that's my excuse
are you saying that living in south dakota helped get me more followers???
ofc you had people you knew there



the cops hate andrea man
what happen
not just one cop, but two got her azz
omg whyyy lhh
snapping and driving, swerving all over the place, speeding  must i go on
lhh oh my gosh! and she didn't get one ticket?
you can talk to the felon



sooo because you got me hooked on #thisisus - i need you to hurry up and watch tonight's episode so we can talk about it!
i'm staying up late to watch this just for you!
ahhhh did you cry?!
why is he on the fireplace?! noooooo!!!
i'm so sad! he was such a cool dad! did they divorce and then he died? was alcoholism to blame? so many questions!
did they divorce?! i know mandy is with the bff. could be drama, could be ok.
i have so many questions.



lowkey wanna cry i just re pierced my nipple 
yourself or you went to get them re done ????
no by myself just now 
i know that hurt !!!!!omg!!!
hell yessss
omg i couldn't
hell ya next time i'm just gonna let it close lol



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
well i made it 51 minutes without crying. a new record. i was so close to getting to the end. dang you #thisisus !
does it count itself out if you were crying before,(a stubbed toe) stopped, then cried again? 26 minutes. #thisisus
was the second waterworks from the show or still the stubbed toe?
toe~then stopped~then started again during the show.
hmm. that may just be fortuitous timing?
i'm gonna take it as a loss then try again. 26 min isn't absurdly bad. plus i'm a chic.



sarina paris - look at us #tb
pissed u never came.
nap said yall weren't coming earlier then when yall hit me up and said yall are it was 11 already lmao
so wha? ur still awake 
yeah but i was already in bed
how often do i come out to salem to see u, rome &amp; albi tho?
i wasnt getting up unless we going out to eat thats what i told arlene bc i havent ate lol but she said yall already got food



my thumb is throbbing in pain ..that cut was no joke, basically tore off the top layer of skin..good thing it wasn't much
i got cut last thursday a piece of steel sliced a chunk of meat off my hand lol
fuuuuck lol u get stitched up?
na there was nothing to stich so i'm just letting it heal lol
how bad was it, u got pics? lmao
it was bad but it's looking better now lol i'll take you a pic tomorrow cuz i don't have any haha
lol sounds good






it's so easy to box away the opposition when you only have two boxes to choose from.
third parties are a waste of time and have always proven as such. its always been a two-party system. facts of life.
i don't play by the rules. i'm funny that way.
you've also never elected anyone outside of either the gop or dnc. guess you're funny that way as well.
guess you don't validate me or complete me.
guess you're just another squishy, uninformed garden-variety political neophyte.



4:12 am
night owl lol
 work nigga 
easy money get that fool. liam keeping me up watching tv smh 
i need to see him soon, next weekend !
come get him bro 
next weekend lol.



i forgot my headphones for the gym this morning and it was surprisingly pleasant
i listened to r.e.m. in the car in your honor
they are on my work out playlist. twice actually
the automatic for the people album is my absolute favorite. the whole thing. i had the tape &amp; it was yellow.
it's probably not the "popular opinion" but i always go back to new adventures in hi-fi.
e-bow the letter has to be in my top 5 of all of their songs, for sure.
mine too. and leave. i love the guitar work on that song.



fairly-to-very embarrbutted how many times i have listened to grigio girls.
i'm just not feeling this record. a little disappointing after 3 years off. million reasons isn't bad, the one song i like.
i think it's better than artpop, which is a low bar. beyond that, yeah, could be better for sure. just this one weird earworm.
i think joanne is missing a big dance hit. but maybe she's truly done with the days of the sounds of the fame/fame monster.
i hope not. cynically, doubt joanne will spawn any hits, which hopefully will leave her scurrying back to the dancefloor for #6
i've changed my mind, some good tracks have grown on me.
which?



the audacity 
sound like a girl
sound like u omd
md you gay
md fagget
gay butt nigga
md brokey



sometimes i think my mum's a bot, then not, then i think she's a bot then not
maybe she's just delusional?
i want to wait and see on this i've felt so similar but i have no proof
whenever i try to explain something controversial to her she never gets it and she's a smart woman -
i mean what kind of human can be this ignorant?
does it seem intentional? like she intentionally keeps herself ignorant so she doesn't have to actually think about things
maybe your perspective hasn't been tainted with miseducation and complacence. that gets in the way in a lot of cases



your tweet seemed somewhat humane, but the last part was an attack on your behalf. don't @ me stupid crap like that
don't victimize yourself raul. just don't. just chill.
how about you message or call me, and thoroughly explain any frustration you may have. other than that, nothing will be solved
how about you don't tweet towards people, bashing them, publicly and there wouldn't be anything to be solved in the first place.
is that it? that's it? or is there anything else in your agenda worth mentioning? hm.
i don't know, is there?
no. i havnt had any complaints, can't fix anything if i don't know there's problem. all except for my twitter rampage, right?



pray for me...i have hell in me and i am fighting it with a vengeance.  i am trying to take the high road but...
hope you are ok hun! dnt let them win you stay being you're true self and continue taking the high road like you always do 
but i wanna @ that rat and tell him to choke on hiv infested cum sandwich!!!!
i feel u! i haven't @ the irrelevant bb houseguests yet but i sure was close! i'm trying to be somewhat positive but it is hard!!
#zaulie living their life. if they don't like them, fine! but why hate? it's burning me up on the inside. trying to calm down.
it's not even worth your energy! they are a nobody! whatever you decide to do though i got yo back!! 100% no questions asked! 
thanks boo



there's a hold on my account so i can't enroll for clbuttes... and i only have 2 days to do it smh
emergency contact?
yes!!! but i'm not the only one.. a few of my other friends from cal poly said they updated a week ago and its still there
no it's like everyone:/
that's so annoying..  do you have priority?
yeah i do. you?
i do! so it's only 2 days... hopefully everything works out 



happy birthday!
dang jay, the plug like that bro
you want me to give you a lil shout out?
lmao put your boy on
you went sky diving?
nah, just a cool butt picture
 i was gonna say ur lucky lmao, i wanna go so bad



i'm so sleepy.
schleep
i would lol if it were that simple.
lmao cant just close ya eyes and count sheep?
i'm at the er. might put my head in my lap lol but that's the best i got.
whoa, everything ok?
yah i think so.



today on twitter, i'd like to talk the butt as it relates to parasite lifecycles.any and all pictures will be sfw.
) did the movie dreamcatcher, which prominently features butt aliens.
these aliens enter through the mouth, consume their host, and exit through the butt in a gory fashion when done.
, who was on oxycontin at the time. opioid painkillers can make you constipated; may have inspired aliens
as gross, weird, &amp; horrifying as this lifecycle is, a lot of critters either make the butt their home or use it to complete their lifecycle
today, i am celebrating the critters who call butts their home.also, if you're pooping out living things, please see a doctor.
your psa tweets make me love twitter so. ;-)



i wanna go to del osso 
let's go 
yayyy
but when 
i'm free whenever 
we can go sunday when i get off?
yes please 



i feel awful 
you want me to make you some soup?
that actually sounds great lol
i've got you, do you want chicken noodle or potato?
chicken noodle :)
i'll see if i can make you some 
omg i love you, thanks girl



went to the gym now we just ordered pizza, its fine though bc it counteracts it
traitor
theres no yops here! but if you wanna send me some, that'd be cool too
like a ubake? in a freezer thingy??
yeah! you'd have to like 2 day ship though
lmao i will when i get a chance
you're so real



always stay humble and kind 
hey abi
lol hey
have u cleaned up my baby
nooooo  will you help me? 
i sure will. as long as emma got some candy left in that bag
lol she's always got candy. trust that   but you'll be the best fr. bc my mama won't help me 



really looking forward to being in washington in the next few days.
it's amazing!
what's your favorite spot?
jk seattle duh
we'll be there!
go to zeke's pizza! it's average! :d
hahaha i miss you. see you when i get back



lol gn.
shut up nerd call me already
you don't have my number or?
you don't remember saying you'd call me back or?
petty
who you? yea
 screw off



then stop
okay thank goodness
also exaid?
yup!
less then two hours of work and 1% battery on phone
oh dear
*nose boop*



i'm not ready for this episode fam
missed it sunday, and someone canceled my recording :)  i'm never up this late, but i'm staying up to watch replay at 3:30!
it's rough
started at 315.  20 minutes in and i'm already at a loss for words....
that...was disturbing.
i'm still in shock...it was unnecessarily brutal
thought glenn was toast a 100 times already, but abraham? thought there was more for his character bcuz of the biblical name



ppl will argue bc its in the comic blah blah thats why he died
and one of the few times the comic is followed, it's to kill the only asian character. like really?? bye.
lol but of course. unless he got something big in the works. there is no excuse
yeah exactly. i haven't heard any justification for his death that i even semi-agree with.
the light rumor is he is joining the dceu as nightwing
i would love for him to join the mcu or the dceu, but nightwing is romani and erasing a romani role wouldn't be okay
they are just going to cast someone white anyway. you already know. why not give it to him?



wow, this furore over the esc keys removal might last almost as long as the one about the headphone jackanyone remember that?
yup. it's why i decided i didn't want to upgrade until there are adaptors.
adaptors for what? the esc key?
oh. i was talking about the headphone jack.
thats what confused me. the adaptor comes in the box, no?
sorry. i spend a lot of time listening to music with my phone plugged into a powerbank. i know i'm an outlier.
aaah, ok. yeah, i didnt think there were many who did that a lot, but it sounds like its more common than i thought



if u don't know me or hang with me i feel bad for you bc i'm a great person and i'm funny af.
idiot where
idiot i miss u haven't seen you since that party lmao
aye round two this friday ;)
hit me up u know i'm down for whatever ayyy (;
text me then i'll hit you up
black out haha



so many words to absorb on the bio. i feel like sponge bob. scientist, i'll drop the mic there. unless it's scientology.
nix nein non on the "scientology."i'm a biologist, but work in petroleum.
which is bio. was hoping quantum mechanics. bio can get boring. how is that different than geological exploration?
my quantum mechanics experience is limited to the monte carlo simulation.
that's math
it's math, but more like determining where you're at in space and time; helps me help people improve decision-making.
most ppl would not see that as being helpful.



i cannot stop listening to #tiimyturner
i like it but it's hard to sing along to bc of the n word every 3 seconds
i just say it. i ain't ashamed!
omg  guess what guess wjat
???????
im coming to alabama for thanksgiving
we can't make it for christmas. if we can get off, we are going to try to come up for a day at thanksgiving. at least i am



twitter is so depressing tonight cause the cubs are losing 
go cards
go cards it is
you're welcome
i'm so happy you're a cards fan
i'm so happy you're not a cubbies fan
i have so much respect for you now



dame or kawhi for mvp maybe lebron bc he is lebron but dame &amp; kawhi are my top choices
don't leave out my boy russ like that man 
shii my bad lol you right bro! definitely those 3 but i don't think they'll win enough for him to win it ya know?
idkkk i think they win i dont know i think they'll win more than blazers
idk actually about dame either bc i don't think the blazers or thunder will be seeded higher than 6
it's stupid bc dame &amp; russ will both put up #s but if their team isn't ballin they ain't winning it's dumb
to get that mvp respect on a decent record team



so these girls got suspended.. lol next time anybody says the n word on twitter or snap is getting snitched on by me to their principle. 
regardless of race. yes i'm tf petty bc those girls did not deserve to get suspended when all y'all say that word on the dang daily !
i don't say "nigger" on the daily....
aye! thank you for not using a derogatory term to your friends and not cry abt it when white people do in the same manner 
people are saying a word that their ancestors used as they oppressed, enslaved, and raped african americans. it is not the same.
that's exactly it! so why is it okay for black people; the same race that the slur was used towards in every derogatory way,
to repeat that word to wdudever they want to and get a freebie for it? shouldn't they be the 1st ones to not use it at all?



i wish we didn't own a house so we can pack and leave to colorado. i love it out there 
girl, it's way to expensive out here
i'm sure we can manage, but a lot holds me back. idk if i could live without my mom 
i thought i couldn't , but here i am 
lmao i know but my kids  it's something we want to do. but there's so much we have to do before we make any decisions.
true , it's hard being away from family, but when you are away you find yourself being more happy then you ever thought you'd be
our mortgage is pretty high, but i meant like carlos has a good stable job.



how do you start your day off? meditation? yoga? running? let us know so we can share! #upgradeyourself
i start my day with prayer and a walk. #selfcare #wellbeing #natural #holistic
that sounds lovely! fresh air and fresh thoughts to start the day :)
how do you start your day?
with water and supplements ;)
i do those too. just after my walk. i need to get into the habit of having water first thing when i wake. it does a body good
it's such a simple yet effective thing to practice. keep a bottle beside your bed so you can't forget in the morning ;)



anger issues? he humiliated you, megyn. you're a joke, mk.
i don't watch that crazy hag!! what happened!! #teamnewt
she pressed gingrich on trump's remarks about women..
no one has brought that crap up today until her!
all she can talk about. her ratings are down, which is good.
will welcome her.
since cnn has no ratings, it may be a good fit.



i got fake people showing fake love to me
shut up
wbuttup andyyyyy
wbutt good?!
i miss your dude butt! when are you coming back ?
this weekend cuz
text me this weekend  and we can all hangout



how many award-winning dishes or tasting menus have cooked green pepper? probably zero.
like...bell pepper? or any?
green and cooked. tastes like the 80s.
saison did a gourmet version of a jalapeo popper once. that was green and cooked.
i mean cooked green bell pepper not jalapeno. overpowers &amp; kills meat dishes/sauce. other peppers/colors/fresh/sparingly ok
yeah, that's why i asked. it's often a filler vegetable. maybe in new mexico?
what amanda said. those stuffed green peppers (from the 70s/80s.)



so, what did you think about that episode -twd?
part that was horrific was panning the faces &amp; the fear that showed &amp; 15 or so minutes b4 knew-so intense
for me it was glenn trying to talk to maggie.
it was sad. abraham so brave. now what happens to the "family"?
negan evil but rick's group acted as mercenaries,killed negan's men while they slept-love interplay of good/bad imperfect ppl
yes.
rick is crushed now. to take back his leadership role means sacrificing daryl! and i do love that redneck



my mom really made up some bullcrap as to why i wasn't going to glamis. that crap just pissed me off so much holy  screw.
your not going???
no. her idiot butt told me she cancelled the trip and then now all of a sudden is going with all of her friends.
awh i wish you were!!!!! we'd have so much fun.
yeah. literally everyone is going and i got  screwed over out of my family trip. i'm  screwing pissed.
awh i'm sorry :( convince her!!!!
i can't get the days off now. it's way too late.



n i cant even see him 



awwww justin you're only a half hour ish away. you should meet up with her.
never gonna happen m8 it wud have by nah i only live on huddersfield
boooooooooo!! it needs to happen.
it isn't hes in glasgow tomorrow no way near me depressing knowin hes 40 mins in a car away from me lol
trust me i know that feeling.



all have a theology, what we think to be true of gosh, &amp; a creed (written or unwritten), what we say to be true of gosh. what informs it?
a rainbow speaks to gosh's nature apart from the bible. but it's through the bible that christians believe that. fascinating.
so my curiosity runs wild to find out what a rainbow means, what does it reveal about gosh thru scripture?...
according to biblical text, gosh gave it while promising that never again shall he destroy the world by flood.
and i've heard that him setting his "bow" in the clouds is like a warrior putting down a weapon.
i don't know if that's true, it's plausible...but things like that keep me digging &amp; enjoying the journey!
good enough for me.



ok...exactly what are y'all mad at ciara about???
i'm mad at her because she never gave me my hoodie back after the breakup
you'll be fine
im so cold tho
get you a chubby girl to lay up with
naw...they pussy too good...make me do crazy tings man
like what 



freshman year, i made a promise that i'd go back to ep after medical school just to make a decent radio station. and i will, mark my words.
why does this remind me of myself considering the fact that i'm doing biomed and comm 
maybe you could be the host. 
***
lol down af 
i'll remind you like in 20 years. 
20??? lmao, it only takes like 8 for med school



wtf should i watch
amber alert
is it good?
yea
if the description butt 
 take it or leave it kianna lawd
lol ima give it a gander 



6 goals tonight, defintely best i've ever played. freaking love my team#deathrowfc 1-0
lies
hater
i had my 1st 6 goal game when i was like 5 #easymoney
hahaha i had 9 in mighty might at memorial lmao. but i suck at soccer i'm just fast.
they dont keep score in mighty mite smh #lies
i kept my own lol.



my spider senses tellin me not to cop this dang game
which
final fantasy
maaan aren't there like 20 of those games?
way more lol
aww hell nah
series like 30 years old breh



next time im home ill be at the usc track running if yall want these hands on the corps was up
wazzup man. pull up with dem dickzz
bro.... thats homosexual chill
sorry private
im hurt you
 sorry pvt
you stupid idiotes



one of the  benefits of being high school clbutt president all four years was a peaceful transition of power.
you were?
naturally
not buying it, sorry.
hey man wtf yeah i was
we'll see
have you ever heard of "peaked in high school" guy? you might wanna back off on challenging my high school achievements. jussayin



5:30am and the garbage truck slams the dumpster to the groundat the school across the street, won't miss that when we move
lol  garbage day here to an i live next to the school.  same. thing.
this happens every morning even in the summer when there is no school
yep and the windows are open an it scares the crap outta ya
and the twice a day traffic crap show with parents
lolol!!  i make my kids wait til the majority is over.  i catn take it!
we can't safely get out of our driveway during drop off pick ups



how is it that airpods are going to be the cheap option to get a w1 chip in headphones?
and even with that price a lot of people have been complaining (mostly those that would never buy anyhow)
but, switching between devices is something that i want to be able to do without huge issue. so airpods might be the best option.
they are definitely the easiest option.im currently using the dash headphones - only paired to my iphone though
i probably dont know what i am missing out on. thatll probably change here in the coming weeks as i get used to airpods
yeah, i think a lot of it is getting used to headphones being wireless and living with the changed parameters of that
i am ready for wireless. my wired headphone device switching system at work is ridiculous!



my dad still gives me crap to this day about choosing dance over sports smh
you can dunk that's  y
lol funny
did you already go to the rec?
no, i'm leaving in like 5 min
i might meet u there
yayyyyy :)) go i won't be there that long



highly recommend taking women studies with proffessor govea because its such an eye opener and she teaches it with such pbuttion i love it
how's her syllabus??
wdym by syllabus 
grading / structure/lenience
and so far we had one exam and it was easy, got an a
ooo sounds good! thanks
shes so awesome ;~; and np



not to be broadcasted to a bunch of bubble screws with no lives on a reality show
i thought you liked nikki?
said last week wasn't true
well nikki is an athlete



i do like carmella
one is a women's wrestler the other is nikki bella



don't have time for fake people so i've been spending time finding out who they are so i can drop em 
alright you caught me. i got a nose job, it's fake
is that why you cover your nose face in all your pictures 
yep. i got got boys.
get gotted you bubble blowin baby

all bubble blowin babies shall be beaten senseless by every able bodied patron in the bar






it was pretty decent, thanks for asking. lol wby? 
pretty good, first day i've had off in a while 
that's good, did you do anything or just chill? bc both are good things to do when you're finally off lol
i was gonna be in bed all day then ended up going to find the rest of my haloween costume 
what're you gonna be??! 
velma from scooby doo



is driving us all the way to cleveland tonight... say a prayer for us 
take me with you
you missed out
you never agreed to take me 
u punched a hole in the wall before i would ask u
that was about ohio state not the indians !
if it goes to 6/7, we will take u



basically larping the cats musical right now while i take my cat 4 his last walk in this neighborhood. neighborhood strays monitoring us....
gonna be interesting walking him by the new place. apparently there are a lot of chihuahuas there and he, a big kitty, thinks they're prey.
it might help if our walks are in the middle of the night but i'm gonna want to get a feel for the area first. and uh. maybe a can of mace.
... don't get mugged
probably going to invest in one of those pointy self defense things that go on your keychain
i would definitely be a victim of friendly fire if i got mace.
.. yeah don't mace yourself. the pointy thing is a good idea.



warriors big are soft. warriors gotta fill the center position
that's why trade klay thompson for demarcus cousins
nope
why not.!?
just cause
you crazy i would do that trade anyday...
i want a defensive center. we got enough scoring players



imy
i will be back in cc soon lil homie
like when exactly ?? 
i think thanksgiving is the earliest
alright bro 
i'll hit you or you sis up when i'm headed down
alright bro



of course trump supporters are mad at megyn kelly she's a woman with a brain and an opinion. she bounces outside the gop bubble of delusion.
she's in her own bubble. calling someone a sexual predator as if it was solid fact is not an opinion. trash trump, rightly
everybody said the same thing when it happened to bill cosby and look how that turned out.
people also said that about 3000 other men during our country's existence and they turned out innocent, even 20 years later
i would be more concerned about donald trump's upcoming child rape case...that one disturbs me on many levels.
can it be disturbing if no proof has been brought forth yet? because until then it's just a story.
it's going to trial in december so enough proof has been brought forward to get that far.



lucid dreams are just awful
i think you mean sleep paralysis dreams, which i also  screwing love them. i also can lucid dream af, i'm a pretty gnarly sleeper bro
yeah sleep paralysis sorry. lucid is the good one. its so hard to get out of sleep paralysis
everyone has their own way of getting out of it; experiment with it dog! wiggling my toes gets me out, no lie.. im a freak
mines my arm , ive had it several times. worst one was shadow people 
i arent afraid nothin! sleep paralysis dreams are  screwing awesome lmfao
yeah idiot i agree but when im trying to get some sleep and this mother  screwer starts whispering things in my ear



i be at work high dennaho  screwing up shi
lmfao u hell. b dropping shii i kno
hell yea. it make time go by fast but what you got going this weekend
none i got a lame life. what's the play? link
i'll b in commerce
dang. when u going
thursday after work



my tl is so dead coz none of my uk people are awake and active 
i am  lol how are you
i'm good! how are you?
that's what up! mi deh yah mon another day another dollar you know.
i hear you brother
what's been happening with you though? you haven't performed recently have you?
just working on some music, finalising some stuff. nahhh, not lately, i will when someone pays me to do so 



dodger talk: i have some concerns with roberts comments stating that the majority of the 2016 team will be coming back for the 2017 season!!
i don't like this...we don't need another repeat of the 2016 season!!!! smh
....why not...it's not like we need a whole lot
then tell me who do they let go and who do they try to acquire??? serious question...please answer!!!!!
...i do think know who they will let go or acquire...i know who i would want to see gone
who do you want to see gone???
...baez....anderson.....think keep puig....reddick can go....kike can go too



not only is my favourite writer from portland but the twitterverse keeps connecting me w/ writers from or. thanks 4 the follow
it's a great area! very conducive for creativity. how's toronto?
indefinitely!toronto is home: hopeful in sports &amp; bustling w multiculturalism. beautiful but full of traffic &amp; condos. &amp; cold!
sounds like portland! just trade cold for rainy ;)
a friend just came back from portland &amp; was surprised how small it was compared to toronto. i want to visit it looks beautiful.
definitely, it's got some hot spots, but overall, it's way less crowded than the average city.
is a local celeb. he's my favourite #writer 






at apex '15. he got that easy money as i remember
remember when that smash 2 guy tried to pull that one on us at big house?
not really. but i bet it happened. did i bop him?
no you went "yea.. suuurrre it's ur first tournament" then you told me you could tell he ain't a melee guy
cuz he didn't react to "smash 2"
dang i'm good



, you think hillary is wonderful. she isn't. but how could you know that? you don't live our lives or know her crimes.
"conservatarian" must mean that you only consume information that comes through chain emails or talk radio.
conservative libertarian. and you must be a hillary fan.
yep. because i don't get my info from chain emails or talk radio.
i'll further bet you haven't even glanced at the wikileaks emails, &amp; you think russia made them up. that's how gullible you are.
i don't think they were made up (without further proof) but i (and our intelligence services) understand that russia leaked them.
but the fact is, the emails contained nothing very danging. they were mild at best.



finna go hoop.
about to get crossed up 
bad game
lol, wya?
i got sleepy fast
lmaoooo!!!! gots to get ya rest so you can make them good grades! 
hell yea, im omw to that bih now 



every girl needs sum chocolate in they life
that part 
true facts yo
i dig ur style lol
thank u
yw
well...at least somebody understands my style



went to tc today, worst idea ive ever had.
but why
i was with my mom, but i realized i hated high school and the majority of the freshman this year are so disrespectful
yeah, we're definitely not meant to go back. 
if i wasn't an adult, i probably would've had to kick some butt
but you are, so 
the only thing holding me back was that i dont look good in orange jumpsuits



good morning happy wednesday or hump day x
good morning christie
good morning maggie you at work now,hope it goes well for you x
thanks buttercup, getting ready enjoy your day
yes hope work goes well maggie x
thanks, having a halloween luncheon today on our floor. we look for any reason to good off and eat
goof off



nothin like gettin together with the guys and just having a good genuine conversation 
mf
c3 &gt; me

ain't even deny it!!
you know wbuttup lol
you can have him. he ain't crap anyway!!



as i get drunk off baker's bourbon. no nothing still beats it other than bookers
i was just thinking i should finally tell you the plan! :b wait until you to y slaughter house bourbon tho it's faster stuff
i did. this schedule is bleh
days off in the literal middle of the week seems to friggin weird............
i mean i do so well but i have to deal with real retards that are picky eaters
it's a  screwing snake pit out there trying to open a spot these days
there is just no honor in serving retards



hey pal you up &amp; out? we still awake big baseball game tonight &amp; mom's team won. i don't quite understand that it's again. m
evening my pal. well that sounds exciting! xxxx
mom tells me she wanted to see her team win the world series before she croaks. last time was 1948 so they overdue. m
blimey, it has been a while then! bet mummy enjoyed watching them x
oh yes she's excited for the indians. it is quite exciting.gets her mind off this crazy election.it's crazier on a daily basis
oh yes. still on the news here all the time! xxxx
i wonder if youz as sick of it as we r it's on 24/7.can't get thru 1 program without hearing something. mom's phone acting up



someone put me on to new music please.
lil peep
any specific song?
beamer boy or white wine. idk if you'd like it but i do lol
just listened to both, good looks  lol
gotchu 
any other suggestions or is lil peep all you listen to these days? lol



boutta break my phone
that's why you need a android 
g crap boutta get one
i need a skype buddy so hurry up 
nah i can't cause someone said they'd drop me if i do
just do it 
thinking about it



quick, name me something more demoralizing than applying to jobs for which you are overqualified
applying to jobs for which you are perfectly qualified and not even getting a call
ugh ok yes i've been there too recently and blahhhhh
it sucks so hard
i am at my wit's end here
(hugs)i feel like that more often than i'd like to admit.
i sorta feel like i've made a huge mistake



i have to be up in a hour and still can't sleep. life is great rn 
don't sleep, that's what coffee is for
girl you for real know i'm about to come to our clbutt looking dead hahah
you and me both! hahaha all in this together
watch me on the news at 5 am 
omg i will!!! hahahaha
wfmj at 5-7am 



i kinda feel like playing bo3 but it gets boring playing solo
i'll play with you!
psn??
dang! xbox 1 
i have a xbox1
oh awesome!! my gtag is islaycodx
ok give me a sec :)



you can't miss your opportunities 
never
oh look you're still awake
barely
why don't you go to sleep?
cause someone keeps making my phone light up 
oh who would that be?



ok...now i can use this coupon on xv or dr4....hmmm
nigga, are you serious? dead rising 4, nah, just dead series.
series not bad lok
it is after 3.
i only played a demo for 3. only thing i noticed is no strict time and the game is dark aesthetic wise for whatever reason
and restrictive and rife with performance issues.
dr4 looks fun but wtf happened to frank



the only reason they don't? they will not deviate from #theplan which includes trusting #hunter and his drafting. allow picks to develop.
if that isn't their plan, which i guarantee it is, then they are morons.  never have more cap room than the next 2 yrs..
wrong. mentality is to win every game right now. management controls the time frame. that mentality though is fragile.
when you have 3 all stars on ecls you have no better time to load up
i agree. insulate. but the retained salary sucks and why blow the cap on risky ufas that restrict paying the young studs
lucky the nhl ways has excellent mid level stepniak / parenteus available for free every summer
hah! versteeg? i get it. plug the holes with cheap vets. smart.



it  screwing hurts to even lay my head down. gosh.
did you try taking some ibuprofen?
away. 
i'm sorry, babe. wish i could do something to help.
it's okay, babe. just sucks when i have to go to school and do things instead of resting.
yeah, i know. 
i don't know if i'm going to take tomorrow off or not. just have to see how i feel in the morning.



#hereiamwithher wondering how screwed up you have to be to vote for her just because she has a vagina.
it's more like because hillary has a brain in her head, unlike her opponent who needs to be, off to see the wizard..
according to wikileaks she's not to bright and that's coming from the ppl who work for her.
have you actually even gone to wikileaks or do you just read the edited and highlighted stuff they pbutt around twitter?
i've read them yes and that's lame to try to say it's edited. yesterday i read one where they needed to sober her up, lol
if you've actually read them directly, can you forward me a link?
simple google wikileaks



gonna be live at the kanye concert
your going?
yes sir
ayye... you saw the warriors get waxed 
naw at work going to catch the highlights tho soon
true i forget you work during the week lol
you always forget smg



not going to escape, so i better go see ye
tbh would have preferred escape over ye, but wasn't gonna happen :(
dang , should have just shown up to escape in a wheel chair i would have helped raised you up during the sets
haha that wasn't the problem, i needed a ride and my sister wasn't going.
haha oh dang that sucks , should have rode with us lol
yea but i only knew of 1 person going and it's just weird to try and go solo lol
oh aww no rave fam. yeah and i tend to move around a lot stage to stage so i wouldn't expect you to tag along with us there lol



do people still play world of warcraft? like that sounds like such an iconic mid 2000s thing but it still exists???
remind me to tell you about my wow obsessed, mega loser of a cousin sometime 
how much good boy points does he have?
his rice score is hands down 100
jesus  screwing christ how is that even possible? my friend who is waiting till marriage for sex is at least a 72
and here i am with my what, 17?
p much. i'm at like a 30



if you're so confident in your "non-binary" gender, why do you so easily get offended by everything?
i used to be on tumblr a lot and totally caught up in the insane dogma, i think a lot of the oversensitivity is bc ppl are
completely agree with you. i used to be a hardcore sjw as well and almost came out to my mom as agender. glad i'm outta there
awesome, it always makes me hopeful to see more ppl who have turned their critical thinking back on
it was so funny because i left religion before, thinking i was breaking free from people who didn't think rationally
but i dragged myself into another similar cult. i'm like simultaneously patting myself on the back and chiding myself rn
i wasnt raised religious but i feel you on that lol.. i cant believe the crap i bought into, but at least i stopped..



happy c-day my nigga 
my nigga big birdd crap fam thanks my dude that crap means a lot stay up out there g
boy i ain't know you ain't talking to me hunch back of norte dame
why you look like dr. doofenshmirtz tho ..
bruh i still got all the old craps and some new craps let's not start this roast
you look like peter parker in highschool....getting bullied lmao
my nigga is spider-man now



3rd grade teacher questioner we had to read around 1st few days of school my favorite song:2ofamericaz most wanted
@ a private catholic school they called my mom&amp;she took away my radio would never let me have a parental ad sticker #90sprobs 
took slim shady ep &amp; offspring americana tapes to elementary school &amp; got suspended 4 a wk. #wellworthit #1999
got cronic 2001 as valentines gift from my gf in 7th grade, and my mom found it broke it into pieces
on my floor when i came home from school and she immediately thought i was smoking weed. (didn't till i was 20)
i wasn't allowed anything with that parental advisory sticker
ouch, back in the day especially the 90s the best records had the sticker. you must have been in radio disney hell



so is wikileaks credible? can anyone say for sure? it seems like no one knows and what u believe is based on ur party
i don't think there is any evidence that they have doctored materials.
so wikileaks is sort of like snowden? if what they are saying is credible, honest liberal media should cover that too... yeah?
ny times with a huge cover story on new wikileaks today. not sure why you think the liberal media isn't covering?
ok today exactly they did, before this or no?
i think it's been pretty widely covered on a daily basis..every day, i see stories highlighting new info
then how does hillary still have any credibility?



im shuffling through my ygo decks and why is my dragon deck so useless? i need to rebuild it. my blackwing deck is still gucci tho
i havent played in so long tho im super rusty w my cards and their effects.
lets gooooo
but remind me to bring my deck home
tell me when u go home
turkey
i cant believe youre riding anturkey home



welcome to buffalo wild wings, where we're out of boneless and honey bbq...
don't be that customer lol
nope....legit, i was that employee.  and was dead serious too.  we're out until thursday &gt;_&gt;
wait you worked here too? lmaoooo
lol yup...with the absolute best management  /sarcasm
i actually don't mind it i've worked for  screwin hitler soooo
this team making my chain of command in my army days from 2008 look like geniuses lol



fun fact, i pluck parts of my facial hair lol
same
really ? lol
yup, some mustache hair and the side of my jaw.
yea it's just better, and honestly i'm trying to get this crap waxed off eventually or laser (i'm def getting laser but i'm broke so)
need to wax my backside. but i don't feel comfortable with people touching me lol
just let them do it, or take some shots but not too many lol



i need to smoke, this cold turkey  not going

idek why i'm up bro i can't sleep
nigga i ain't even been sleep yet smh i'm salty
ctfu nigga why
bro idk i just can't sleep
crap weird ain't it ?



lsu in the avi?
lsu in the avi 
#geauxtigers! #beatbama #buckfama
see you cool people lol
lol yeah i can say the same. and i saw you tweeting #riseup sunday io
thanks! and yup them too.
you lit like me then 



is iw gonna be cross platform?
no just the same like xbox and ps4 no pc
fuuck
guess it's a good thing i got an xbox 1
you serious??
i've had one just have nothing to play on it
bo3 and play with me haha and iw comes out in like less than a month



i'm in clbutt bout to die man
man change your faggot butt avi
idiot make me change it
u gotta stop that crap  watchu on tonight 
lmfao, ian got no moves, link up.
bet, ur brother bullcrapted last night
bout what



i hope everyone registered to vote on time 
only if ur on the ballot
you can write me in! lol jk. but did you?
if there is i'm doing it idc,&amp; haha of course once u register once you registered forever since i voted for obama last time
no vote clinton! haha okay good 
anything for u yackie 
.... that's been long gone for a while now



grows by the day
same girl i just love her
the new originals season came on to netflix and it reminded me of how much i love her 
and once you catch up the new season starts in january or february on cw!!!!
wait these girls came up to my last week and said "do you know chloe from h2o?" and i was like yeah yeah 
ahahahahah good! and omg see i know what im talking about
i wanted to go as hybrid hayley for halloween but i felt like i would mess up with the lines under the eyes



sitting here wondering why my face hurts and i just remembered i hit myself in the face with a late machine
stop being so dang emo, chill out dude
studying for chem gmfu
aww i miss chem
lmao nah
i like chem more than bio
nah i love bio



make me some food pls ....
girl it's 2 am and i'm trying to sleep 
but you're on twitter 
i know can't sleep duhh
well since you're up ....
lol noo who do u think i am your maid ? 
.... the best grill cheese maker ...



geology was dope today b/c we went downtown to look at the rocks of buildings &amp; even went to the tech museum to look at earthquake stuff 
omg do u have colin's 
hahah yes! do you?
yaaaa on thursdays! do u have lab 6?
aw i have it tuesdays! i don't have it, our exam is next tuesday :(
u didn't get it back from him? i missed the lab so i don't have the worksheets 
oh wait yeah i have it! i can send pics of it if you need it!



what's all ya sext beasts up to tonight?
gettin' old!   what, it's a hobby.
whaaat not writing while getting old?
i've been slacking, true.  world needs more text of muscle balloonification, really.  it's my niche.
yes your work makes the world a better place :u
i've gotten some thoughts from your work in that regard that i really need to type out, one of these days.  thanks!
i eagerly cannot wait &lt;3



's wedding in san francisco city hall today.
how long before you swap the uk for san fran?! haha enjoy.
would have happened ages ago if i had my way man haha.
great place. shame i was there when no sport was on!
you should come back when there is. great sporting city.
tell me about it... and some great pizza around too!
most definitely!



being attached ain no joke 
hey wyd
omw home wyd
y u leaving
im not feeling well
quit lyinggggg
uh no text back ? 



how does ohio state drop behind louisville? the acc is the joke of college football.
because louisville would have destroyed penn state!!
i wouldn't be so sure about that. louisville wouldn't stand a chance against osu, mich, neb, wisconsin.....
dude osu just lost to penn state we will beat nebraska um will be a good game
you obviously don't know how hard it is to win at psu.... you think b1g teams are overrated? louisville is in the acc 
how its looking the acc and the big ten have 2 truly good teams neb will have 2ls and wisconsin already have 2 be honest!!
clemson is overrated. they struggled badly with troy (lmao). wis only 2 loses (osu, um). nebraska still have 3 tough games



i'm not ready for this episode fam
missed it sunday, and someone canceled my recording :)  i'm never up this late, but i'm staying up to watch replay at 3:30!
it's rough
started at 315.  20 minutes in and i'm already at a loss for words....
that...was disturbing.
i'm still in shock...it was unnecessarily brutal
but agreed.  that was rough to watch.



help seriously
'smatter hon?
pain. sdudes. life.
wish there was something i could do
what i need is someone to help me go sdude shopping. i'm literally wearing 2 right sdudes
oh no! how did that happen!
sdudes falling apart haven't been up to going shopping



my car died right in the middle of a roundabout  only me 
omg!!
it was terrible 
what did you do?!
the cops came and helped me out
omg i would've been so scared lol
i was crying 



it is barely going to be wednesday and the type of  screwery i've had to deal with is beyond me
go to sleep
i just got off of work lol
yo, wtf rod quit?
yes over the phone 
but why tho
he got a better job.... and it's naomi's last day next tuesday lmao



ps and nintendo over xbox for me but i'm willing to pick up xbox stuff for my collection
so uhhh what are good clbuttic xbox tittles
as in og xbox?
yee
jet set radio future, shenmue 2, panzer dragoon, ninja gaiden black, otogi 1&amp;2, gun valkyrie, outrun 2
im liking what im seeing might have to invest in an xbox and jump on the team
theres also fable and the knights of the republic games(on pc too i believe)



the bacterial eye infection in the wolf was secondary to likely demodex mites. #drkexoticvet
could you take care of the demodex mites with bravecto? or would that only work in domestic dogs?
no studies on bravecto in other species so we don't know safety and efficacy.
thanks, dr. thielen! are you currently filming for the next season of dr. k's? :d i can't wait!!! love the cases &amp; team.
we just finished filming not too long ago! new episodes feb!
do you ever struggle with compbuttion fatigue? i know that it is a major problem in the profession currently.
interesting to bring up. i don't suffer from cf but burn out from working all these hours. my residency almost killed me!



so many words to absorb on the bio. i feel like sponge bob. scientist, i'll drop the mic there. unless it's scientology.
nix nein non on the "scientology."i'm a biologist, but work in petroleum.
which is bio. was hoping quantum mechanics. bio can get boring. how is that different than geological exploration?
my quantum mechanics experience is limited to the monte carlo simulation.
that's math
it's math, but more like determining where you're at in space and time; helps me help people improve decision-making.
how being nowhere and in several places at the exact same time as a wave and particle but not unless obsearved would help



i cannot wait to move next month into a civilized area with reliable internet.
who's gonna be your provider?
either comcast or centurylink, i think. but literally anything would be an improvement.
might want to check out comcast new....data cap policy coming in november before you go to them.
will do
i guess living alone and i used 560gb which makes zero sense....
wtf how



the walking dead just messed me up so much. and they killed my favorite character. i'm shook. 
i am still not okay.
same. i feel like i was there.
very nervous to see what a season with negan is like.
i read the comics so it's gonna get interesting and jeffrey dean morgan plays him amazing.
jeffrey dean morgan is amazing in everything he does. i will probably come to love him.
its so hard though.



cavs best team in da league! don't @ me
...
dontae go to sleep
 buggin
who better?
dangnnn it's only the first game.. let the league rock first
bro they are in the league it don't matter! if they would've smacked the spurs everybody would be saying warriors best team... 



anybody want to see weezer with me? in bethlehem pa? alert alert anyone
oh  screw dude when
december 3rd
i'd be down how much are tix
54 per. u down?
yeah if i'm not broke by then lmao my financial situation's  screwed rn
it's all good bro we are all in the same boat keep in touch tho



f/a
nah imagine

blank tweet
what? lol
that tweet was blank for me
thinking emoji. get an iphone. 



i take dat back dat was mean
btw  screw you
lol i said i take that back
still gonna take offense, i'm a great person and a crapty one so you better recognize it ya hussy
ya mama
ya mama single yet wondering for the future if need be
she's married ...



i'm so bored
let's go skydiving
i'm down
next month?
just give me da date i'm downnnnn whenever
are you serious you are down
yes fr



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
well i made it 51 minutes without crying. a new record. i was so close to getting to the end. dang you #thisisus !
does it count itself out if you were crying before,(a stubbed toe) stopped, then cried again? 26 minutes. #thisisus
was the second waterworks from the show or still the stubbed toe?
toe~then stopped~then started again during the show.
hmm. that may just be fortuitous timing?
i am gonna take the loss &amp; try again next ep. (it's wicked) jk it's late here. congrats on your time. til next week.#thisisus



anyone else getting the 404 error trying to get the #urbandecay #fullspectrum palette   what's going on?
i sat refreshing the page for like 5 minutes, and when it finally came up, it was out of stock
whatt??? for me it's just been showing 404! ugh i've been waiting months it can be out of stock in 5 minutes!! 
ikr! i'm so upset. my local sephora said they get it nov 2. i'm bout to be camping out before they open 
honestly!! like saved my bday money for this palette i've been waited sense they teased it. gotta call my sephora! 
i'll pray that the makeup goshs are kind to you 
same goes too you! i don't have time to camp out next to a sephora i got midterms



i said i wasn't going to do a morning mention again cause people don't really do what the mention actually says lol
but it does say fb or get unfollowed so i have options too
talking to yourself ? 
not really i mean just couldn't say how i wanted to say with this 140 word limit stuff lol

you the one that be talking to yourself..."donasia i think they on to me...oh really??" 
 nobody will listen to you like yourself.



i wish i could play an instrument lol
i can
which one 
guitar
do u have a video of u playing
no i haven't played in a while
lies



pretty sure my friends should pay me to find out things for them when they ask cause i'm just so freaking good at it
what's my favorite color
navy blue
incorrect. your services will no longer b needed.
your avi is great btw
candid
are you kidding me?????? i was so close lol and yes she's great



for making himself relevant again by dissing drake just like everybody else tries to do
he's been relevant embecile
so u was bumping kid cudi in 2016 before the drake and kanye thing?
nigga yes like 2 weeks ago i was listening to his music while i was getting stoned

do that all you want
u can't tell me kid cudi name come up in music convo in 2016 tho



got my back on this one #inkmaster 
good thing he doesn't listen to dark matter yet ... "snacks up your butt ..."  (hope everything's ok though) 
yes he managed to blow the marble out of his nose. seriously almost crap my pants. 
good story &amp; btw todd &amp; dan need callers tonight ... 
tonight or tomorrow night?
dark matter with todd &amp; dan tonight
uuuggghhhh ok i guess i'll listen 



i loveeeeeeeeeeee this  screw
this seems sooooo up your alley!
right? omg soooooo jam
i love it lmao i'm so lkajfkjafk gosh. i /love/ it
it was junho's song right?wowow
yeah!!!!!! i'm so proud of him lmao his songwriting!!!! i love the lil retro feels he always gives his work *_______*
guess who's gonna jam to it?omg can't wait to hear the album version so cool 8_*



just had one of my worst breathing attacks or whatever you want to call them. it sucks having to gasp for air.
panic attack... welcome to a daily struggle of someone with anxiety
it's not a panic attack for me. it's a cold attack basically. you know my situation it's one of those situations 
no i'm so lost
you were at my house when i had one where i can't breathe and crap just hits me all at once. and i need my inhaler.
i've never witnessed anything like that. 
she use 2 be able to do it without it.



where do i buy medicine in animal crossing, i got stung by bees twice
at tom nook's!
ahaha alright ima go there now, i gotta go near there anyway to sell some stuff
did you see my new drawings? 
yeah, you really be puttin in work lol. drawing hella crap lol
@drellyfish i don't want to bother you but it'd be awesome if you could rt it as an ways, because of you i always get a lot of recognition
retag me on it plz



some of the conversations ash and i have actually sound like we date or something idk
so ur cheating on me
oops
that's fine, nexttt
stfu and love me
ok srry
thanks



. 
so tell them to stop carrying one crappy made in china knock off line (ivanka) so we can all happily shop there
i'm sorry, but i think this is totally weird since so much has been made by other companies in asia for years.
oh sure, not about china really that's a side point. it's about discouraging others from running as a nazi demagogue
woah... did i miss something? is she using human body parts in her fibers?
because another round of this will lead to unabomber style militia violence.if capitalist person choice can stop,yay
so, i take it you aren't voting? both candidates are capitalists.



i can't wait to go home and face a blunt in bed
best feeling, i'm rolling one rn
what are your go to skins
either wild rush swishers or pineapple games
everyone has been talking about the games i might have to try them one time
they have some good flavors, i usually just roll swishers all day tho
ahhh i'm a white owl kinda bih. do the games burn slow



i was finishing up this buttignment till i checked my twitter notifications 

twitter is such a big distraction yo 
exactly my spanish teacher keep telling me put my phone away 
put it away and learn some spanish 
i missed 2 days &amp; everyday a block day imma never catch up 
stay after school yo  that'll help you catch up.



i just watched "this is us" and it made me cry a little bit.....again. lmao.
that show  screws me up man
i always talk about being heartless but every week when i watch it i'm a little idiot lmao
lmao ok me
currently my favorite show... until nashville comes back.
ughhhhhh when does that come back?!
january 5th!!



i'm very confident that cavs will win again. the king is still forcing his will on the league!
promise they won't
you'll see
y'all sleeping on dame
they'll have a good season but they don't have enough to get past warriors or spurs
warriors look terrible tonight the way they look they can't beat portland
what about spurs?



my spider senses tellin me not to cop this dang game
what game?
xv lol. usually when i go against my gut feeling i regret it
!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i'm so conflicted on it lol
lmao you need to finish x...you not coming off the heels of modern square so idk where the worry comes from
it's just how the game been in dev so long. and idk the stigma around the game weird. season pbutt... countless dlc items
most of the stigma is fans being overly mad that it aint turnbased. ff aint been turn based since like 03



tengo un dolor de cabeza como que si anduviera cruda 
deseguro si andas cruda 
hahha no nqv 
ajaaa
ahhhhh believe me !
no pos s ya vi que andas tomando si i can't lol
ahhhh really? it was only 1 drink lol



let's take a vote! should chuck rub josh's back?
other way around
but josh is the one who has a problem!
now all three of us have problems #rubchucksback
stop that hashtag now
so help me gosh i will get it trending if you don't play my name is mud
try me



ima just start doing her like she be doing me 
who you talkin bout ?
you 
no kause aint nobody doin you no type of way 
ok 
dont speak on my city rara 
 screw em



i got a presentation due tomorrow but of course i haven't started on it. 
almost done. 
wyd
homework.
i'm so boredt
suck some dick
 eat some clit



why are shirts so expensive????
$18
free
ummmmmmm i'm cute?
me too!
buying a shirt directly supports the willow fund
dang:/ 



watching this tnt nba deal about race, such weak sauce, so out of touch of the legit issues of the movement, why bother then
like...what...is...the...point if you're giving one sided opinions?
can at least one of them talk about their experience about how they were fd with because of their race, they have stories
especially jim brown. they're not offering anything outside of typical victim/community blaming. this is solving nothing.
barkley is so out of touch, he is an uncle tom
chuck is so far gone from race relations. on a scale of 1 to oj simpson, he's up there on being out of touch on his community
totally, but i liked the ok doc, haha



and i dnt ever shoot my shot smh
this is why we can't start a family ima have to fight uber drivers lol
lol oh plz. every day it's somebody new u tweeting abt to marry u or give u babies
i don't know what you talking about
i'm sure
don't do this
i'm chillin' lil mama



i've never been so tilted than watching a chat argue over which is better blood viles or estus.
game theory here i come
didn't help that the person streaming was the one that caused the argument. 
you could be necking vodka for all i care, and i would still buy the dang thing on day one
yes and no on the same thing lol. his main complaint was farming blood viles.
either way by the end of the game you come out with way too many of them, and barely anything can touch you
well he was treating it like dark souls tho. running pbutted mobs to go to the boss. so yeah he was bound to run out.



#wikileaks has confirmed everything non-hc shields have been saying about hillaryat least hillary being corrupted isn't up 4 debate anymore
if wikileaks is all u have...that's pathetic. every time they release emails, she widens her lead over trump and jill
no it isn't but they have proven hillary is a two faced person.
btw what happened 2 ur jill logo. have u dumped her already? she needs you cuz you is all she has now.
i still have tnonope. she has others
with citations
yeah i saw them site things that proved the narrative they wanted



#msnbc #morningjoe 2010 teaparty came to blow governance up and they did #trump #bannon coming to blow country up #vote #hrc=critical
all contrived by koch bros. backed tea party, did gerrymandering won state legislatures, governors, etc. won house obstructed pbo!
you nailed it catherine and many of us have not forgotten,dont have selective memory,know cant fix what don't own-hope we prevail
can win senate, beverly. take 25 seats in house. we can prevail! must get out dem vote. can't have tarnished presidency-vulgar man
doing my part as much as can-we must prevail
you sure do each day. thank you for your insights!
as do you catherine,thanks for compliment-appreciated



i'm trying so hard to keep my eyes open 
go to sleep
i need to! i slept like 3 hours last night 
random butt eye emoji but whoa three hours who are you
i know!!! midterms is killing me  i'm going to fix my schedule starting next week 
nah you good
nah i'm not, gotta get my life together



the strangers just csme on tv. i'm  screwed. not sleeping..bye.
that movie is the creepiest movie i've ever seen
hold me. i'm scared lol
lmaoooo i was scared when i was at that creepy motel 
i was dead butt about to call the police hahahha
i thought i was gonna die lol
so did i.....jk 



can i talk to you about the ap job?
?
the buttociate producer job i mean
ah! i dunno if i'll be much help, but i can try to answer a quick question or two
do you know how much experience i would need to get an email back? or how long it would take to hear back
as much as the job asks for unless you can justify it otherwise in your cover letter, and i dunno!
it took me 6 weeks to get my job from application, and i was already on the books haha
alright i appreciate it!



interesting. catching up on internal sops in the office this morning.  we've a new health and safety policy for working alone in the field.
is it to not point the lasers at yourself?
yes! do not point the lasers at yourself or anyone else.  ;p
anyone else? uncoooooool.
i actually did point the laser at myself a few weeks ago and could see a signal from the bone in my finger. how cool is that?
that is fricking badbutt, no lie
it was neat. could see bone in my finger then fatty acids in the fleshy part of my arm. i know. i'ma dork.
no, that's totally cool!!



can someone explain to me why i am still awake?!
same des
it's annoying. i have to be up for work at 8! 
i have to be up for clbutt at 8 this insomnia a idiot
obviously sleep just isn't on our schedule for today lol
"sleep is for the weak" id like some of it though
i wouldn't mind being weak if it meant i could get some rest before work 
i'm not feelin clbutt tomorrow rn but i definitely won't be feeling it in the morning



i want an asian boyfriend
no, no you do not. trusts mi
girl why. they're so cute i want them all :( #althoughanasianbrokemyheartbefore
i've dated 2 and they're both so similar thinking they're the crap and stuff. so possessive 12/10 don't recommend
you're right lol i dated an asian and he thought he was hot crap smh :/
right!? like girrrrrrl my ex didn't want me to wear shorts without him around lolol #trustory
girl i'm glad you not with that controlling butthole anymore smh what is wrong with men lmao
thank boo boo! happy you're not with ur "hot crap" ex too ahaha



anyone tryna go to denver for the thug 21 show? it's gonna be lit.
me
fr? airline tickets 66$ round trip.
yeah dead butt when is it
december 11th.
you in atl?
yea.
text me 7705499955



i watched "hate rising" last night. highly recommended. the corridor scene with ramos and the trump camaign says it all. #nevertrump
i dvred it. haven't finished watching it yet. was at the point where he was interviewing the second guy.
the weirdo nazi groups are as expected - it's the people who might pbutt for normal who are shocking.
exactly! the "shirt and tie, white nationalist" as the one lady put it. they have a better chance of recruiting more people.
it's astonishing anyone is that stupid and obtuse on purpose in this century.
eh, a lot of these folks aren't stupid though. it's about fear. they're afraid of "change".
it's just another flavor of victimhood.
exactly. one thing i will say though, through the first three interviews he seemed too standoffish with the interviewees.



yo i've never vibed with someone like this before
go to sleep
imy &amp; my peanut :(( 
miss u too !! i got her hospital bag ready today 
you have no idea how excited i am that she will be here in less then a month 
dude i know ! 26 days until my due date but after this week she could literally be here any day 
i'm gonna cry when i meet her tbh don't judge me
lol i won't i promise



i send pictures of pigs to hayden to talk about how crapty they look
wow you're such a great influence on the new ffa members, you should be so proud of yourself
you're so childish, worry about your own dang animals &amp; let other people worry about theirs.
i'm allowed to talk about pig with my boyfriend that is my business
talking "crap" about other people's animals isn't your business.
it's my opinion of an animal therefore it is my business
okay well no more opinions on mine. not your business. so keep your mouth shut. i'm done with this
lol sure thing bud 



i dont even wanna step foot outside cus i already know its cold
 screwing ice cold
noo im so sad
 it's gonna be a harsh halloween
crap  screw it ima be drunk ill be hot af 
day drinking 
ur crazyy i wouldnt be alive for the nighttime 
i don't think imma be conscious on halloween either  i'm having a house party , over 200 jell-o shots.



i'm sooooo over being nice. like seriously that's it 
you're too nice sometimes lol
i know i needa be elizabeth but when she's off that henny 
omggggg! hahahha i was such a idiot. you should try it
idiot i did try it but idk what it did to you  i was like op i think today's the day me &amp; elizabeth are going to throw hands
no lie i think if it were someone else who gave me crap i probably would have thrown hands lmao ima keep w tequila now
never again going through that tho lol worst crap
 you were still telling me you love me even though you were being a idiot so i was like okay it's good she loves me lmaooo



yes the spurs thumped the warriors but stop saying they won't win this or that. still so much ball to play
only 1 game smh
right bro and they saying they won't win the west etc. i mean dann
thats bs, they really needed that butt whoopin they woke now
100% but people forgot the 11 heat started slow af too but i'm sleep 
i swear i was thinkin tha same thing, just like the 11 heat
great minds think alike. just hating. speaking of hating lbj jumper still broke af 
that idiot was stat padding like a dude, nigga yall up by 20!! in tha 4th and you still in?



hoy tara englishan tayo! hahahahahaha
sure sure 
so what's up men? hahahahaha
like. i'm staring at the ceiling cause i'm lying down 
lazy day? get up and do something! (putahrages ang hirap jusq mali pa ata sinasabi ko) hahahaha
hahahaha . no... it's 3:41am right now and i got home from work like 3 hours ago.. 
i see, so why are you still awake? not yet sleepy? or waiting for someone?
i'm not yet sleepy.. hahaha.. and i'm kinda angry right now.. pissed off again because of someone or probably at myself.



i wanna get married at a vineyard.. did i say at? i meant to.... because ya know.. wine.
we need to road trip to ironstone vineyards soon, flipping beautiful dude and it's only like an hour away
but.... i will have to get a fake id first 
you got it cupcake.
where do you even get fake id's #imagirlscout
by the way. do you remember girl scouts?!
honestly kind of thought it was a cult growing up and i was secretly only in it because my mom made me but love the memories
 i remember when we graduated to juniors..



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition
ik man i've been in a little slump lately and i'm trying to build my dreams back up
if you need anything dm me homie
gotcha pal gotta chill soon
or we can play in a local lan we each other and dominate lol



7 more hours 
till 
i get off.. nigga had to be in at 3 this mornin
wya now ?
nebraska
how they treating you up there ?
it's straight son.. ready to come home tho
you know when you come ?



okay i use instagram more than i even use twitter these days but wow my aesthetic on there sucks butt im an embarrbuttment
what is your insta?
same as twitter n pretty much everything
what the  screw, i dont remember adding you but i guess i did that already. coolio.
yeah i think we kinda followed each other on everything back when i was friends with dalton
welp i dont remember that at all and  screw that kid lol
lmao okay tru
that entire family is trash. like literally trash.



practicing goat tying my foot rn &amp; i've rope burned it.. bad..
you're doing goats? lol
ybutts!!! i trained jd for it &amp; richard just taught me how to tie so all i need is a goat.. can i use cisco lol?
ha! you have lost your mind! hell to the nah can you use my baby cisco!  #dude
dang too bad i can't use baby ziggy lol he's too big  #lookwhostalking
 only in yo dreams sweetheart!  &gt;insert zebra emoji here&lt;
honestly if i learned how to tie a baby zebra a goat would be no prob
truth 



my dang world is upside down right now. i've learned stuff in the last 24 hours i should have learned a long time ago.
like what?
i may have 4 older half brothers i never knew of. i'm doing a lot of piecing together right now to find out.
my family on that side is so big i never knew. now my finding out, through those i didn't know.
"supposed" family contacting me now.
blood, like from my dad
people i never knew existed til now. i'm trying to piece it all together
i actually have been through that.



i ruined my nice healthy hair there not even long no more cause i burned them they got short i dont no how
hay idiot
hay garidiot
i would date u if you wasn't such a idiot butt
i would date u if u wasn't such a cry face
how am i a cryface 
nobodyyyy loves me i hateeee womennnnnn
you don't know what i've been through



someone stop me from biting my  screwing nails dude ughhhhh
i bit my nails for 14 years straight and there's honestly no way to stop it. especially it it's a nervous habit which mine was
and i still pick and them and it takes every inch of my body to stop myself to this day but it's been a year and i'm so happy
getting long i bit them and it's so nasty but i can't stop 
it's hard dude i tried everything and nothing work until i made myself finally stop because i wanted to paint my nails lol
i even do that and i still end up biting them )): idk i bite the inside of my cheeks too and like the skin around my nails
i bite my lips and cheeks too 
i guess i just have to get stronger will power  the struggle is too real



are more than 20 teams going to stl?
i live 1.5 hours away, but don't have a team. might come spectate this weekend though if i don't get a last-minute squad.
dude if shirts are dope there i may get you to pick me up 2 i can paypal. lemme know 
absolutely! wish you'd come though so we can hang bb.
i know i know bb :( going to see bae this weekend. we're trying to come to an event soon
hopefully there are more that i can go to. absolutely can't justify flying to cali when i have bills to pay. haha
but vegas (   )
true... but would i rather go to pgl vegas, or evo 2017? don't know if i can do both. haha



let me go eat something

what happen boo?
im hungry lol what you got
my step dad made ziti but i think they snuck a bowl of banana pudding in there too bout to go see 
 go
it was just pudding 
wow i don't eat that



i miss doing crap in general. all i do is work
yo. thursday. the wonder years, knuckle puck, moose blood, real friends. it's $30. go
!!!!! what!!! i need to go. where at and what time.
royal oak music theater. doors open at 6.
i get out of work at 7:30 &gt;:(
i won't be getting out of work until like 8 at the earliest. you don't have to be on time to have a good time.
well you aren't wrong. give me a 2 week notice and i'd still be 20 minutes late prolly.
let me get over my irrational fear of crowds and people in general real quick and i'll be there.



kanye is gonna be so  screwing lit i swear to gawd!!!
yaaaas
so you are going tomorrow?!
not tomorrow, november 23rd 
eww! did you at least get pit tickets?!
yes !! that's why i bought them, they were way cheaper for this show 
yea cause you're buying them early! the seats around me are being sold for $150 rn! and i bought them for $30. 
fuuuuuuck that 



i'm crying over a movie
what movie?
beauty and the beast
haven't watched that movie in forever!
same! but it's my favorite movie ever and she's my fav princess
i still have that movie on dvd
i lost the dvd
where are you watching it from?



anybody wanna snapcash me money for some kanye merch? thanks
i bought lots of it in oakland &amp; 2 items today.
frame a shirt. memorabilia!
good idea. not sure which one.
the one you see wearing the most. that's the one you should take care of best.
true. i was bummed i couldn't get the camo tee.
okay but at least you got merch. be happy!!! you've experienced his show!! the little things matter most.
i'm not complaining.



as bad as that segment was, still better than a women's arm wrestling match on raw.
stole the words out of my mouth #rawisaturdsandwich
hah. watched the review huh?
thanks for the review by the way. funny i think a lot of the same crap you do when craps going down on #wweprogramming
that's why we're here. amazing how many people think the same way.
when u got hllywd writers with no wrestling brain writing a wrestling show you get "we want wrestling chants"   #embarrbuttedfan
yeah, sd is the superior show right now.
smackdown looks like the attitude era compared to raw right now. as hard to watch as #impactwrestling. #needcoffeeforthis



i lost 8lbs in 7 days eating only salads, turkey meat, grilled chicken breasts, grapes, and 2 gallons of water a day.
oh it's lit. congrats boo. i really need to do something.
i gotta lose about 30 more before i go home for tg. i had to tame my sugar crave. i got it under control now
how sway? i need to lose 30 period.
i had to stomach the fact that salads help tremendously. darker the green, the better. i cut up chicken and turkey with it.
i like spinach salads so that's fine. it's just exercise i'm annoyed by
yeah, i hate exercising. period!!! so what i do is just a few sit ups and push ups and go to la fitness and play bball.
i'm gonna start walking /jogging again. that's really all that doesn't annoy me.



im about to loose the smalllllllllllll little bit of patience i have left in me if this website does not let me schedule my dang clbuttes
dont use wifi go to a computer lab or something
just walked down to my computer lab &amp; still wont work omfg
oh well idk mine worked fine it only took me like 3 trys
finally got it to work. i guess i got locked out of my account after trying to log in so many times :'))
yeah bg needs to figure out a different way to do this lol
you're tellin me. i was on the verge of ripping my hair out
yeah im pretty pissed because im on a waiting list for one of my clbuttes



wanted to act like she was beyonc or some  when she came in to chipotle 
we was trying to ask this dude who she was n she acting like we was paparazzi 

bra you should've been there
you know i would've said some lol 
lmfso we all was taking her butt out
 saying what  ? who fixed her bowl?
lmfao do she think she joseline or some n blu n sheema



call ur henchmen slime
go back 2 sleep lol
lol it's 9 i'm awake already
me too haven't seen u in 4ever
facts tho last time i saw you were we doing community service  lmao
no we were at that kids house w the pool and the tent and the speaker lol
oh crap! ur right i completely forgot about that. that was a while ago too tho
ik lets have a reunion



sim city exactly. they want to force demand and development around choo choos. it wont work because we arent lab rats. #tcnt
look around the blue, green and northstar lines. it is already happening.
there is a long, long way to go. plus the bond market risks. then the other question is, is it even ethical?
why isn't this the same for road construction? it's all social/civil engineering. shouldn't pretend otherwise.
with roads its very easy to determine if you are supplying what is wanted, not forcing it.
that's silly. congestion isn't a sign that more lanes are needed. examples are everywhere. atlanta is a good one.
the vast majority of those things have all kinds of capital and fiscal problems. choo choos were only sensible when the ...
...country was poorer.



me?
mmhmm
i haven't nutted since last wednesday /thursday. i'm on lock down by bryant as far as that goes lmao. he said i gotta hold it
i know!!i wanna edge, but i know if i do imma hit the wrong pressure point and explode!
 screw that, i'm gonna edge lmao... at least i'll get a small bit of relief without nutting. i just need to stroke my dick
lol i'm scared.
why u scared sexy?
cuz imma gonna shoot like i did in my last clip i posted



had me loud asf laughing " unh unh don't do that " 
lol girl you play too much i was serious 
my gma was like what's wrong w. you 
lol you jus too dang silly 
and is .. cause i can picture your face if you woke up to it 
lmfaooooo!!!
you must be on your way to work ?
nope not yet i'm drying my clothes , my butt fell asleep last night.,



is there a reason people tend to choose romantic partners that they look like they could be related to? like, a scientific reason
it's weird, buddies.
they want to have offspring that look like them because they want to pbutt off their genes both phenotypically and genotypically
makes sense to just breed with relatives then, que no
i mean they also don't want a child with extra toes we're programmed to not want to mate with persons we have known since birth
makes sense. what about gay couples tho
please weigh in. all my bio knowledge has been used up
lmao i think the answer is people wanna do themselves



i'm. going. to. kill. her.

my daughter. i was sleeping so well and she woke me up. smh.
dang my daughter is sitting here playing
and she's fast asleep now.
 motherhood
i'm about to put her up for adoption 
 zamn



i hate how i cannot sleep at nighttt
suck for u
no seriously
wyd
watching netflix. u
same here lol

what ? lol



taking my fine butt to bed 
shoulda been there already
i blame u b
why it always gotta be my fault???
always?
yeah i always gotta be the bad guy i'm sick of it *stomps the floor and crosses arms*
if the sdude fits rock it well you feel me pimpin
*sigh* i guess you right... goshdammit 



the politics behind this eric garner killing are unprecedented. doj to bring charges after edny declined. loretta will be gone soon too.
doj bringing it to show prosecutors are not tools and no one is above the law
the pba union lawyers are not skilled though will be interesting to see who gets hired
it's unprecedented that the local feds don't go forward and the doj steps in
don't know much about the edny prosecutor personally other than he comes from a family of decorated det's so i can understand his decision
makes me  how much black people have contributed to the laws and policies and fiber of the anglo american legal system think about it?
in regards to the politicians in power that saw their communities devastated &amp; wanted something "done" for their support.
nah just how much we have been pawns in the legal system and to the case law



westbrook, irving, curry, lillard, paul. that's my top 5 pgs an idc about yours
harden #1
harden barely in my top 10. he's still a sg to me
lol ur dumb
you're an ogre
while that may be true harden is easily top 10
you're dumb. if you wanna consider him a pg he just entered a clbutt that he's not the top of. top sg, not top pg
most of the top 10 point guards are 2 way players. harden ain't no 2 way player



came home shower get ready, but now i'm stranded.
what drink this wknd
automatic everyday if anything. where you was lastnight
midterms this week lol. i'm free starting thursday
alright lmk let's get it
wyd thursday night
turning up
aight see you then



some girls should not wear crop tops
ok sorry ill stop wearing them
some girls. you're fine mf
nope lol. ill stop wearing them
ok do you booboo
oh i will
i hope so cause i just said to do that
dont tell me how to live my life



soooo lssu has a former major junior player on their team that's leading their team in scoring... thats not legal#thingsthatmakeyouwonder
but if theres shenanigans there, ill take forfeits on the debacles this weekend.
he also went back to tier 3 juniors for some time too. coaches recruited him knowing he was semi-pro. violation?
i suggest that you refer this to your coaching staff.  tell lance that geof morris sent you.
is allowing it, even if the ncaa missed it somehow.
theyll read email.  :)
you must not know lance very well :)
okay, youve got me there.  i wonder if his # is still the same.



gad i'm full of itfluff i honestly wish one day just once i can write like squealing rubber burning spin out of control n not look back
i like what you write, no fluff that i've ever seen!
i gotta get some of that what you got in yah avi :))fist up pow pow lol funny was gona tell u other day how i like your pic
thanks, beez! fun pic taken last week at a bar opened in the 30's by a boxer.
oow how cool in the 30's i think this would feel amazing still to be n your there like time travel back n future combined :)
owned now by the son, his daughter waiting on us; she lives above the bar and her little boy runs around the place-dingy but fun!
awe now this sounds like a story to be written about :)
agreed!



in a week and i'm sad
:-( imysm, come back and stay for like 30 days
no
well u r a bootyhole
be quiet sage
i thought it was sapphire
when did we agree to that??
idk i just thought of it



somebody really slashed my tires yesterday lol
dang bro lmfao who you  screw over?
man i actually was being crap this time you know,
smh
i won't even acting up bro lol,
lmao you forgot her birthday
lol nah i remembered i told you man i was being a good boy smh
dang bro text her you did something that you don't know you did lol



you are what you eat!!!"this means that you are various vitamins and minerals"
does that mean i'm chorizo and sour cream right now?
err i mean booty
actually it means that you are just various chemicals that make up the chorizo, because chorizo is a sausage which is from an
animal that also has to eat something which means they also are what they eat, which also means so on and so forth
why you gotta get so real with me, now i wont be able to sleep after all these beers
what do beers eat to make them beers.
the sunshine and whatever water eats



do the indian groundsmen even bother to prepare a wicket, or do they just chuck some dirt down and stomp it in? #indvsnz
what happend in the last 3 odi s dont u know what happend in the 2 odi #ind lost by 6 runs in 2 ings its a sportive track
the tracks not sporting. there's a reason why india only win at home then get the crap pasted out of them all round the globe
then why do #nz gets high in opening part.. they loose wick in mid ovs its the turn over its not about the pitches. who plays
it's the dead pitches with no bounce that spin like a top. you never see india replicate this outside the subcontinent
what about the #aus #nz world cup did any one questioned even #indvsnz have spinners dont blame the pitch. improve ur game
nz made the final and india didn't you muppet.
in the 3rd odi #nz dropped #kholi s catch  its a match turning point !! #indvsnz pitches wont decide matches. it all in the team



really wanna start shameless but would also like to keep my sanity
doooo itttt...dooooo ittttt
i already know so much of what happens though id only watch it for ian and mickey lmao
same..i watched it only for them, however they dont really appear that much at first. but i fell in love w the plot&amp;other ppl
ahhhh i'll think about it 
i should probably continue it but i needed a small break from it lol especially since college  screws me up haha
ohhhh yeah schools  screwing my butt at the moment so i feel ya, there's no hope for me catching up on tv shows yet 
i know if i start watching it again i'll get hooked and i can't rn haha hopefully over winter break!



one day i will want to meet you because you are a person who adds to a person's experience - i look forward to that time
you are too kind!
i appreciate folks that are real, you are genuine in your expressions.
cheers mike!
one day we'll meet, we'll stare, &amp; then we'll drink as friends
lol. you had me at "stare"
one day. wear what you like but be ready to drink my friend.
have no fear, i'm always ready to drink! lol



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*
ooops
dog cleaned cat's bowl. this went on for a couple days before the cat sat on my head and made her complaint clear
surprised they cat didn't beat up the dog.
oh, she does that regardless. lol






dude i'm in love with him  i neeeeeed his number lol
idiot you ignored him he's prob all sad at work rn 
i got nervous lmfao imagine he didn't ask for our names and i'm like alexis  he'd be like tf ? 
he did ask i heard him clearly  we already know his name and crap 
when he said i go to the gym we were both like  que ? lmaooooooooo
peroooo queee sexy
ahh i can't wait too see him tomorrow 



if algebra was a person... i would take its mom out to a nice seafood dinner and never call her again.
we have a test today too 
trust me i know...
you can do it babe!
i literally can't. i've been up all night and i can't pbutt these modules
yes you can mickey promise ya! i'll help ya today 
love you girl. thank you!!!
love you too 



i'm still waiting on all this free healthcare, college, housing, and money from the government, that everyone says us native americans get.
yeah, i could use a bit of that too
yeah, i really didn't care for paying the penalty for not having health insurance when i was laid off last year
the healthcare situation is actually better than when we were kids. but still not the best. er visits over hastings visits
man, i can't count how many times we had to drop someone off at hastings, usually in the middle of the night.
long drive to get told your std isn't a pregnancy
can't forget about the time i had to take marcus butler to the muskogee er when he got pepper sprayed in the dorm parking lot
i remember that, poor guy, he's a lover not a fighter



just pinned my first tweet on my profile! should be interesting....
you are so cute! enjoy your tweets.
aww, thank you so much, gail! means a lot! 
really mean it and your knowledge of music is crazy good.
oh, you're so kind! i'm just happy i can share my love of music &amp; country music with you. 
keep it up girl! 
thank you! will do! if there's ever anything you'd like to see, just shoot me a tweet! 
will do, from one night owl to another. lol



i always turn my phone off when i take shrooms i hate to hear that mf make any sound while i'm high
need to send me some
i think ima start selling em if i come to ms
bring some of that weed too! that crap so good
got plenty of that. i gotcha
when you coming down
but if you're in clarksdale, i can put you on with someone i deliver to
i'll be there thursday 



are you ok?
yeah i was in the other room. why?
with all the harbuttment and bullying.
one of my other tweeps knows his identity. he's got an autograph signing business.
good! so if he follows through on his threats we know who he is. they seldom follow through but be careful.
he's in the celeb industry. they get wind of him targeting people and his reputation is shot.
i've taken screenshots of the abusive tweets.
thanks love :)



i actually miss reading books rn. 
i actually miss the crap out of you
aweh vannie! i miss you too. college has been keeping me in my toes and i work on weekends.  i do miss you a lot.
dude same between work and school full time i don't even have time to breathe.
then how are you alive? 
i'm not dude
then how are you talking to me? 
i'm a ghost



please tell me i'm not the only one who hears j michael tatum's voice when reading jumin's messages.
let's be honest, if mm was an anime and if there were to be an english dub of said anime, j michael tatum would probs get casted as jumin.
i was just thinking about this the other day he would 100% be jumin
yes! i knew i wasn't alone in thinking this!
and i feel like yoosung would sound a lot like wdudever did the va for nagisa in free
definitely! i'm not sure who would voice seven though.
clifford chapin. he voiced hide from tokyo ghoul.
yes. he's perfect for seven.
right??? i can't quite figure out who zens va could be though?



nothin like gettin together with the guys and just having a good genuine conversation 
mf
c3 &gt; me

ain't even deny it!!
you know wbuttup lol
you can have him. he ain't crap anyway!!
omg
it use to be our gosh! you've become this selfish person . you should switch gyms!



this women really really knows how to  screwing piss me off .
@ me
nah all love your way boo.
lmao. you alright?
i can't stand my grandmother .
ughhhhh this idiot. you have clbutt today?
yup in clbutt rn.
we can chill after if you want!
i have work!



i need to smoke, this cold turkey  not going

idek why i'm up bro i can't sleep
nigga i ain't even been sleep yet smh i'm salty
ctfu nigga why
bro idk i just can't sleep
crap weird ain't it ?
this just my life bro i'm not a big sleeper
crap i am  a nigga need at least 5 hrs a night



checking amtrak tickets for blfc cabin, bed, private, bathroom, shower evetything $3400 4 days. flight 6 hours 400 round trip xd
*everything. that includes three meals a day with package. takes 4 days from my house. beautiful trip, love it but alone :(  
except for the solitude, seems like the trip one can dream of =)
it goes all across country and through rocky mountains. if anyone goes i will be happy to go too. hate alone trips.
sounds like a blast, but an excursion like that is out of my budget for the time being =(
someday*
with hard work, i'll join you one day for a retreat to remember, no slacking for me ^^
i would love to get a bunch of us together for a ride to blfc. #memories
would love to do that, and i'm sure we could find others =)



it is barely going to be wednesday and the type of  screwery i've had to deal with is beyond me
go to sleep
i just got off of work lol
yo, wtf rod quit?
yes over the phone 
but why tho
he got a better job.... and it's naomi's last day next tuesday lmao
wow she would be leaving 
our new gm is going to be from vegas hahaha hopefully she's cool



i'm stuck between wanting to cry and rolling a blunt
aren't we all?
unless you are police omg
am i gonna have to keep an eye on you? 
hahaha
that block button is itching 
did i offend you man? never meant to do that. 
u didn't i just feel uncomfortable. would appreciate if u had some pics or something
pics of me?



3rd grade teacher questioner we had to read around 1st few days of school my favorite song:2ofamericaz most wanted
@ a private catholic school they called my mom&amp;she took away my radio would never let me have a parental ad sticker #90sprobs 
took slim shady ep &amp; offspring americana tapes to elementary school &amp; got suspended 4 a wk. #wellworthit #1999
got cronic 2001 as valentines gift from my gf in 7th grade, and my mom found it broke it into pieces
on my floor when i came home from school and she immediately thought i was smoking weed. (didn't till i was 20)
i wasn't allowed anything with that parental advisory sticker
ouch, back in the day especially the 90s the best records had the sticker. you must have been in radio disney hell
ya catholic school private school kid i couldn't even watch simpsons flash to 2005 my 10yr old bro family guy every night
man i wanted to go to st. francis high in la canada soooo bad. but mom was like naw go to public school #blessingindisguise



i identify as transcisgenderfluid dirty laundry with a side of trashkin and aikin. also i'm a furry.
hahahaha sdhejshsn lmaoo
as a vegan crossfitter i am  screwing tirggered
i'm literally cackling rn lmaoo
you're  screwing scum, you deserve a seift kick to the jaw you oppressor
brehhhh lol
did you just buttume my gender?
 screw my bad
stop yelling at me



for the most accurate historical tours please follow pittsburghdan on the snipchat
ohhhh i loveeeeee snipchat!!! it is way better than snapchat, that's for losers.
also better than the snappy 
omg if i ever call it that please smack me
i've heard people use that actual term and it made me shudder like my spine was twisting up haha
yeah that is terrible
and how are you today? done being sick i hope?
oh yes, thankfully because that was horrible. now i'm just trying to stay warm. it's getting cold up here!
yea we have a cold snap coming. i busted out the heavy comforter. and the hot rum/cider drinks for during pens games 



long as im across da bridge to va before 615 im good lol
better get their
already ahead of da game 
goodmorning !!
wyd up
watchu meen ... i'm omw to work .
just asking lol u work in va ?
no bethesda
aw man i miss working out there endless good food



i should not be in traffic for 30 mins to get to a destination. this is unacceptable.
this crap happens every  screwin morning.  screw sa man.
we chillin up here in austin lol
bro i was suppose to be on my way up there but i've been in traffic!
oh yeah you sleep lol. coming down 35 you was gon have to leave at 5:30 .
the issue is i haven't even made it to 35
dang y'all traffic that bad bro? oh nah you gotta go back home and start over
this is every morning!
yeah you gotta purge sa bro 



but i can't miss out on some money
niggas still mad about those trash cinnabon's smh
 screwing donuts smh naaah but old fling hit me up on snap about you lol
lol same chick we was talking about?
naaaah this my southern yaams, she got a friend for you lol
ahh man chick probably look like freddy kruger 
lmao this the good part of the south
lmao idk my last south ting couldn't handle the pressure.
she was from the dirty south though



hey pal you up &amp; out? we still awake big baseball game tonight &amp; mom's team won. i don't quite understand that it's again. m
evening my pal. well that sounds exciting! xxxx
mom tells me she wanted to see her team win the world series before she croaks. last time was 1948 so they overdue. m
blimey, it has been a while then! bet mummy enjoyed watching them x
oh yes she's excited for the indians. it is quite exciting.gets her mind off this crazy election.it's crazier on a daily basis
oh yes. still on the news here all the time! xxxx
i wonder if youz as sick of it as we r it's on 24/7.can't get thru 1 program without hearing something. mom's phone acting up
mum turns the channel, barely watch any news now. always on the news x
i guess it's popular across the world. 2 weeks it all be over. then we be back to normal that we don't remember what normal is



peanut butter is literally everything does anyone in the world literally not like it i was so emo now i'm eating pb&amp;nutella feelin brand new
nutella is trash smh
oh..... my gosh. the first absolute wait thing you've ever said. how tbh
woat not wait smfh
if you were mbone i'd screenshot that and pin it.
where the  screw is my cool nickname
kbone sounds like a meth addict tbh
good thing i just grabbed some meth then wouldn't wanna b a poser
kbone the deal



i changed my handle again  lol
 annoying



you may be right.



i've peeped
lmaooo welp  i hope you're well 
i'm... going through changes too. 






i have to be up in a hour and still can't sleep. life is great rn 
don't sleep, that's what coffee is for
girl you for real know i'm about to come to our clbutt looking dead hahah
you and me both! hahaha all in this together
watch me on the news at 5 am 
omg i will!!! hahahaha
wfmj at 5-7am 
rock it!!
you know i will



for making himself relevant again by dissing drake just like everybody else tries to do
he's been relevant embecile
so u was bumping kid cudi in 2016 before the drake and kanye thing?
nigga yes like 2 weeks ago i was listening to his music while i was getting stoned

do that all you want
u can't tell me kid cudi name come up in music convo in 2016 tho
it does tho. you have to remember i'm an artist and i live in atlanta. everyone listens to everything here old or new
ahhhhh ur right ur right. i overlooked that fact



time to watch #scream season 2
you'll be sooooo freaking on the edge of your seat
i seen the first season just not the 2 . it's already good 
you'll love it
finished all of scream season 2 dam i had a feeling it was him , but of course it's gonna continue lol
did you see the last episode? the halloween episode?
no i have where is at?
i'll send u the link in a bit
okay thanks



ps and nintendo over xbox for me but i'm willing to pick up xbox stuff for my collection
so uhhh what are good clbuttic xbox tittles
as in og xbox?
yee
jet set radio future, shenmue 2, panzer dragoon, ninja gaiden black, otogi 1&amp;2, gun valkyrie, outrun 2
im liking what im seeing might have to invest in an xbox and jump on the team
theres also fable and the knights of the republic games(on pc too i believe)
i've always wanted to play fable im trynna get physical tho and have a cool collection
i feel you on that, yeah fable is cool. one of the 2 western rpgs i like lol



i'm in clbutt bout to die man
man change your faggot butt avi
idiot make me change it
u gotta stop that crap  watchu on tonight 
lmfao, ian got no moves, link up.
bet, ur brother bullcrapted last night
bout what
his lil crap
you know how dat nigga is.. ima hit yo line later and see wat you on



the warriors look like they forgot how to play defense.
no bigs will be a problem
need to get someone in there besides pachulia. he can play offense but not defense
i have more cap space then they do
gosh dangit 
i just wanna watch them play the thunder
me either man. westbrook is on a mission
i seriously love him
youre a liar you just wanna see westbrook posterize durant



i miss ameya so much
i miss you moreeee

how you doing
good , how you ?
gooodd
when you coming back to br ?
after ait , so dec or jan.
we gonna see each other fr i want pics in the meantime



"don't hurt yourself" - eu mesma hoje
eu sempre
essa musica ta gritando na minha cabea, principalmente da hora q ela fala " and keep your money, i got my own ... "
pra mim  sempre just give my fat butt a big kiss boy
sempre "you can watch my fat butt twist boy, as i bounce to the next dick boy"
amm beyonc
mas a que mais me identifico no cd  daddy lessons
amo! mas pra mim acho que  sorry
eu adoro quando ela fala "when trouble comes in town, man like me come around, my daddy said shoot" - parece q ela se prepara hah



trump's just announced that apple will start building factories and making phones in the us rather than asia if he wins. how?
trade deals / favorable tariffs. will be cost-effective to make in usa. if motorola could make moto x here why can't apple?
really? so a us govt handout to apple inc?
not sure what you mean. trade deals are a mess. i'm no expert but we should cater to ourselves first.
who would want a job in us that pays so little? or should the us govt subsidise them?
good question. look at all costs. make stuff here for free, no tax/shipping. low better than no wage. many unemployed (1/2)
(2/2)costof product maybe a lttl highr. companiesto innovate. effect oneconomy offset, longterm benefit. will findmore info
so its quite clear to me at least that its undeliverable. parts aren't american in any case.
part of it is certainly campaign rhetoric, for sure. lemme look at some stuff today. maybe i can find something informative



i'm in better shape than the other big guy at work, so that's nice
how many push-ups can you do
like, at least 7
yeah i can do like at least 8 just sayin
wow can you train me?
i don't feel like your dedicated with the whole only 7 push ups thing
not many push ups but i can bench 3 evans
no you can't
pretty close i'll bet



i can't wait to go to a concert and make a 300 sec snap &amp; send it to the ppl who make 500 sec stories of concerts in section 416 zoomed in
add me on snap
you tryna get 300 sec concert stories or dick pics?
tryna get kick pics 
your phone might catch on fire from all the heat
should i put it in rice?
for a week before i send a pic
peerod23 get ready for those 700 sec snaps straight from the pit no zoom
added you. i'm ready for it



i wish i could express to you guys how much i hate frank and debbie from shameless
it's ok
what season are u on?
1
oh lol i'm on 7, the current one
does it get any better or are they ratchet white people the entire time
lmao wtf the shows good dude. its south side life style they stay ghetto
south side lifestyle..?? who are you
they live in the south side of chicago dude lmao



nothin but a bunch of broke boys around here i'm disgusted. lol
wyd thursday
nothing, why?
lets go get food
i'm down
or tomorrow
we can go thursday.
ight i will hit you up to confirm cause idk when im gonna get work done to my car...
okay, sounds good



sup dude. do you miss me??
avi!! i do miss you
that's a really good answer
where have you been all my life?
i'm a gift from gosh
that didn't answer my question and i know you are
i came from heaven genius hence what i meant
okay whatever
come see me!!



boutta break my phone
that's why you need a android 
g crap boutta get one
i need a skype buddy so hurry up 
nah i can't cause someone said they'd drop me if i do
just do it 
thinking about it
don't think just do
i've been doing me fam



already regretting staying up this late..
hi
hello 
lol wyd fam ?
laying here listening to music lol, what're you up to?
you bet not be in ya feelings lol im just up doing nothing
i'm not , i won't allow it . whelp, there isn't much to do at this time of the night.
hell nah im about to force the sleep
same, goodnight !



i was recently asked by doc to take alexithymia test. think i scored 100%. no wonder i have such people problems, emotionally.
i hear you! i pretty much have to be in an intense emotional state to recognise what's going on, by then it's usually too late!
i'd have to be in extreme intense emotional state. rarely happens.
i wish i could say it rarely happens to me! but seems to be easing lately which is good 
actually i think other people blow up. i rarely notice things i should and then people get mad at me. i'm learning...
how are things going at home btw?
better, trying to work stuff out. i think my emotional detachment really did some damage.
i'm glad for you and your family! no doubt, but alexithymia is a legitimate explanation of that, which you've not long known 
she felt like it was a "life sentence."



had a good time at worship night with my love
are you going to atlanta in january??
they told me about it but idk
you should, the one in dallas was so much fun!
yes that's what i've heard and i've always wanted to go but i'm undecided lol but hopefully it's a yes
you better!! lol im going!
ooo that definitely hypes me up for it lol cause i actually know you today made me miss the old days in youth group
omg yesss!! i miss those days!!! you better go dude ive already asked off lol
bet that



welcome back turd!!!
nice to be back crapty
:) are we friends again
again? when did you stop being my friend though
i said hi friend yesterday and in the video you said no
you know how i be
fake? yea i know 

i hate you bye lmao









get tf out my bed
you get tf out of my bed
last time i checked, you sleep in my bed
last time i checked you stayed in my room
brb, gotta get dad and he's gonna call upd
kinsey got arrested lastnight for talking in the hallway
and keith



all i want is to continue representing indigent clients accused of crimes. why is this so  screwing hard.
do immigration work. it pays and you help people who really need it.
i've thought about it but there's not a big industry here
where is the closest immigration court? and why industry? we rep people not industries. mostly asylum, etc. tough work though.
i mean we have local firms here but they aren't hiring
don't you work for yourself?!
i do and i love it but there's not enough work to keep me afloat
which is why i suggested adding immigration to the mix. in your own firm.
i do really like this idea



i'd like my 28 dollars back
coulda hit me up i'm good at that crap
 screw really i want to die idk if it's just  screwed bc of the maker or bc o built it wrong :/
tbh i've put together all my ikea crap by myself so... next time hit a girl up
 screw ok i woll i might need to buy something else to build n like im bad at it like i cant even put lego things togeteher
girl i got you
 screw ok
should i take it apart n return it? or just bring it there with it together or try to build something out of it all
pay me in rockstar



i have zero dudes back home now lmao
the way it should be
ehh
i'm in the same boat fam
you in a relationship tho
i miss the dude-having lifestyle sometimes...the finesse that came along with it.
but i was legit  screwing my dudes. lol
i'm aware lol
so it's different for me 



you can name your dumb kid alfred or edward but i can't name mine thelbert, rdwulf, or angeltheow? anglo-saxon double standards suck!
my second is actually edmund which is like halfway there.
edmund is a good name. lot of good edmunds
hillary. i dig burke. the bastard.
big fan of edmund, the earl of rutland who died in like i don't know 1458 or something
wasn't he a big ol jerk who was set to be king but then got himself killed in battle? cause a lotta edmunds are like that.
he was cool but yeah he did get killed in battle. and his brothers were both kings, so maybe he would have gotten around to it
no i'm thinking of some other wars of the roses edmund, not beaufort or tudor will come to me.
i love england back when there were only four names to choose from



i said i wasn't going to do a morning mention again cause people don't really do what the mention actually says lol
but it does say fb or get unfollowed so i have options too
talking to yourself ? 
not really i mean just couldn't say how i wanted to say with this 140 word limit stuff lol

you the one that be talking to yourself..."donasia i think they on to me...oh really??" 
 nobody will listen to you like yourself.
yeah and people be listening to you too whether you know it or not like i did
shut up  leave me alone lol



why are you still up. get sleep. dam
wat time is it there?
in north dakota, usa it is 1:54 am
sorry for busy with my work.its 1606 in china,same district with shanghai
so dinner time. wish i could eat real chinese food. not what get in the us
haha,what kinda chinese food do you like?and wats look like in us?
pretty much most. shaschwan and hunan. like spice
ever had huoguo(chinese hotpot )?
you are making me hungry.  chinese restaurant is across the street.



ash 
ayyye von don 
what's up today?
donuts &amp; work  u?
might just drink a cup soup ya nw
meeda take one right now
that ago mek someone greedy like you more hungry lool
loooooool no g that actually full me
really nw
yeup! loved it and the one you actually cooked. especially that.



name a normal food that's not made better with ketchup... good luck.
mac and cheese
wrong lol good try though
while ketchup is good .....no way with the mac
i haven't so you're probably right but it's something i will try haha
how about any fish
i love fried fish with ketchup! eaten it with tilapia a few times too
your a brave soul
i will say i won't put it on steak.. my wife does that but if a steak is cooked right it needs no sauce
you have now been determined intelligent and smart....the wife can do whatever she wants



going to a haunted house friday? who wanna go
cute
i still ain't get the details fr i'm looking them up tomorrow cuz obviously you wasn't gone do it
i kept asking y'all when y'all wanted to go and y'all never replied. boi
i been ready but will y'all be free to go friday
i'm off friday but i picked up this shift from somebody  i get off at 9. how far is it?
it's at the prison here in jeff
ohhhh okay okay cool. what time you tryna go?
when you off and shaq ready
ok.. it's lit!



jim brown was at the forefront and did so much for athletes of color with muhammad ali, bill russell, and kareem.... but tonight? idk man
he was on some other stuff. made me kind of upset knowing he has a platform and decided to speak bs.
let's not get it twisted, jim has definitely used his platform in a major way at a worse time, but tonight i didn't approve
well tonight is exactly what i'm speaking on...tonight he was taking the side of the oppressor so i could care less
"taking the side" might be a reach lol but he definitely made it seem like because he had one good cop friend it's not bad cops
a reach? nah he clearly said the police are not at fault but black people are. not a reach to me
he never said black people are at fault lol i understand why you would feel that way. the indirect answers are the worst
who he say was at fault after saying police weren't ?
look at my last tweets. you'll see what he did. lol.
a town stomped?oh wow lol



don't even get me started on marie osmond getting 3rd.
worst freestyle ever but then again what do you expect from the worst pro ever?
i kinda enjoyed her at first like i was ok with her pbutting josie, albert, and wayne but after that she should've gone
all i know is her freestyle so that's what i'm going off of oops 
she was actually a lot better than that freestyle showed..... not finals worthy though like maybe 7th at best
i wouldn't doubt it. i kinda quit binge watching at s4 because i couldn't find a stream for it
look up her quicksteps sometime she got a 28 on one of them and 29 on the other. idk why she excelled at that dance but she did
i really wanna watch season 5 in full.
it's one of my fav seasons i think
mine is 19 atm



love jesus first. jesus would never condone a man like trump, you know this.
or hilliary commits murder with her killing babies in 3 trimester she said it with her own mouth and yes i'm 72 on ss welfar
so, you are against welfare, just not your own? lol
i'm agaist welfare for illgel immigrants i am 72 on fixed income 818 mo haven't had a ss raise in 3 yrs but illgels get lot
okay, teachable moment here. illegals paid 13billion in payroll taxes for welfare they will never get. they helped you.
and sent lots home to mexico and i do know that as a fact
i lost you. you aren't making sense
volunteering u don't know about that as greed is liberial agenda money money i do things for people free like read feed them
lol i'm at a nursing home 3 times a week
great don't that make you feel wonderful taking care of elderly i know i'm 72 hip replacement and knee but i still help



and i are the only ones awake at this hour
fam i swear on life we the only mfs up rn smh
like for real too bad we ain't working together. we would be clowning tho
etc we could be clowning  now 
right would make work go by so fast i swear
trrrruuuue
making that bank at 3am lol only a few more hours and we done #pucrap

keep pushing almost done
forever tired bruh



like why do people lie soooo much, i don't get it. why does honesty have to be so rare ?
everyone lies lmao
i know that but some people are just seriously tooooooooo much it's annoying like idiot i know you're lying lol
lmao i've met the biggest liars in life.. trust i know  that's why i never believe anyone.. but then again i don't really care to
i try not to care but you know me i care too much for people who don't deserve it
but that's just it... soon enough you'll be too tired of it to still care.. girl care about those who gonna care about you!
i just think they care for me too but that's when the lying comes in and you realize why the  screw did i give them the time
sounds like we need a venting session well lindsey!  screw who ever has you feeling some type of way! you still have beautiful
i'm not feeling any type of way i'm just expressing random thoughts in my head as i figure things out? ya feel ?
yeah i feel, well i'm here if you ever feel like you're stuck on something. but we can talk over coffee tomorrow (:



i get so wrapped up in drama from people i don't even know. i blame the loneliness and boredom on my end. #foreveralone
i offered to play #pokemongo woth you, but you went out of state instead. hmph.
wait. out of state? are we lost in translation? maybe?
you went to like ohio or something to catch charmander.
oh i went one day, but the nests changed literally that same day so i never got to catch them 
and then we never hung out. *dramatic sigh* *applause from the audience*
well then there was moving, and constant stress. that didn't help haha
its totally fine, man. i was just messing with you hah hah. im sorry that you were stressed!
nah it's all good. what's life without a little worry?
true enough!



you going to clbutt tomorrow
yes nigga and so should you
i really don't wanna
neither do i
let's do rock paper n see if i win we don't go if you win we go late
thats stupid
but it's not
very much so
how 
just be in clbutt you have a speech



you ever  screw yo girl while you mad at her and just wanna punch the crap outta her ? thats how i feel bout asha and we ain't even  screwing
what have i done to deserve this smh
tbh i don't know
get tf out my mentions
lmao i have love for u doe
i would have love for you too but you dont keep in touch man
dang u coulda just lied and said you do like i did, dick
youre the most complicated person on the face of this earth jeezus
u the one being extra rn
it takes one to know one



i keep trying to think again what gebutt would look like if no clamp limbs and picturing lelouch but thicc with a fat butt is still impossible
someone has to draw obese lelouch now
woke lelouch fv vcxcvfsdffsddvh
it was too far before there were woke headcanons someone please make woke lelouch
(lelouch voice) iit was n ntt. me  uwuu;; mmy alter zero wbutt ffrontibg;; im juss a smol brita nniabn;;
his alter zero snsbsgha agsvshsjnss smol gay brit... lulu uwu... did nothing wrong...
mod zero.exe has activated dont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithme
i'm gonna dycjing lose it
princegender!system!ace!chaoskin!blmatsu!poc!obese!lelouch telling ableist!suzaku to  screw off
ableist!suzaku who's not poc!



someone just told me that being a spurs fan coexists with my personality lmaooo 
lmfao that tells me everything about you
 i don't know if i'm offended or happy. what does that mean lmao
i mean the spurs got rings so it can't be too bad 
y'all are insulting me on the low lol that's fine
you don't even believe that but ighhhhttt you got ittt 
yes i do, that emoji on the end is shade lol
how about this then 
too late 
i said what i said and in that order 



players like simmons and leonard are tough...pushes back against the soft label the spurs have
all facts, but i've never heard that rhetoric in regards to the spurs.
"too many europeans", not enough dog in them, blah blah been a off and on critique of the team for a while in hoop circles
i guess i've heard those opinions tossed around. never really equated it to them being soft though, but i feel you.
europeans always accused of that...kg himself would target euro players for being soft
true. i thought pop, david &amp; duncan were enough to disregard that label. they're "boring" if u don't know , soft is crazy tho.
they were boring when they had a slow pace with lots of post ups. lost to the suns and they switched it up. pops the greatest
yeah you can't really deny greatness after a resume like pop's.
gets this gold in 2020 it's a wrap
another ring without timmy would do more for his resume &amp; he'll probably get that if he keeps coaching another 5-7 years.



i have been up since 430 just tossing &amp; turning
this exam is going to kill me
that makes two of us! i just went through your snapchat thinking dang dedication!!
i seriously going to cry. i didn't know it was today til i went to my lab last night.
now that sucks, i knew about it, just did not have time to really sit down &amp; study. we will have to get together to study
true omg. i worked 6 days a week i didn't have time either way. ugh next exam we are cramming together dude.
girl me too! we will definitely do so in like 2 week advance 
true. i'm so scared to fail this dude
no seriously, thankfully he throws one exam away 
yeah i need my last exam thrown away






someone was too jumpy 
i was so bored that it seemed like i was scared.
just watch out at night 
quija got me  screwed up!
maybe you'll dream about doris 
 screw. that.
 it's okay just light that candle before you sleep
its already lit!! next to my bible!
it's okay i'm sure kevin will fight the ghosts 



good morning 
morning hun. how are you this morning?
i'm good thank you. how are you?
doing good, very cold tho lol
raining like crazy here.
hate rain  that mixed with cold. the other day it was pouring
yeah, i'm with you. lol
hope you have a great day and a warm one :)
i will, thank you. be safe and have a wonderful day 
you too hun



"jordan doesn't like anyone, he only tolerates us because he works with us".".
that's not true. you loved rodney.
the only thing i loved about rodney was his aid in developing the mcdonald's theory, regarding dating optimization.
"honey dip"
this rings no bells.
that's what you said when you spoke in his voice. or something similar. but i probably got it wrong, like everything
oh crap, i forgot about the rodney impression! i think it was something about doing whippits in the parking lot
it was! and something what he called his girls. but i don't recall that. it def. was about whip its though. still funny.
i only remember the whippits bit, and the clbuttic "yeeainneeknow"
the rodney impression, along with the phil impressions where easily my favorite macedonia moments.



support a corrupt warmongering evil woman like hillary?
because she's not and you've been misled?
uhm.... how would that be?
i refer you to your original comment.
have you not seen the o'keefe videos and loads of wikileaks?
o'keefe? that's a riot. he specializes in getting low level staffers to mouth off, then edits them to make wild claims.
dude; did or did you not watch the videos?
yes. and if you can tell me how edited claims of a low level wisconsin staffer make clinton evil, feel free.
ps why where creamer and fogel fired if the videos where edited?
because the were low-level staffers making statements way above their paygrade.



happy birthday babe!!
thank you bb lmao that pic 
lmao
ihy
so am invited?
to my dick appointment ?! why not 
i mean i guess 
staaa
wth i was all excited n crap:/
ok ok we'll go together lol
thashhhhh right



finna flat iron my hair
um for what 
 i just want to bro
i think not you can wait 
wait for what bro
to flat iron it dummy
wait for when headbutt
formal goof thought you changed your mind
yeah u still dk how imma have it lol, im trynna get a different dress so
mhm well hope you go bold
stfu ho



i need more info on people's definition of the word "rigged." do you mean literal vote-tampering, or a system of self-perpetuating power?
like are you saying there's an actual conspiracy here, or are you just it takes money and power to get political influence?
and if the latter, is this idea new to you?
when trump says "the election is rigged" to the media, he means "it's a biased system favoring entrenched politico".
i'm also curious how this compares with sanders supporters' complaints of a rigged economic system &amp; primary.
to those complaints, my response alternates between "no it's not" and "of course it is. you're just figuring that out?"
as a career public servant, it is often troubling to see experience and dedication to the public cause turned against someone.
i'm far more disturbed by the role of money in politics than the role of "insider influence."
you can relax about the influence of money in politics - it has only been an issue since the roman republic (509-27bc).
longstanding problems can still be disturbing problems.
"if money go before, all ways do lie open." shakespeare, the merry wives of windsor, act 2, scene 2



you watch greys anatomy ?
yes
me too, how do you like nccu so far ?
i like it. it's cool.
you have lots of friends?
yeah somewhat
what do you do for fun?
eat. partying. shop. chill. hang with friends.
do you want to go to lunch friday? since u like to eat?
i won't be at school.
what about today?



yeezus was for sure better then saint pablo. saint pablo was great but it felt short
did he at least start on time? i'm going to his nov 2 show
nope 9:30 ish
does he have an opener?
no just him

but it still is a great show tho !
i'm excited, i have floor seats, i'm just not going to wear heels lol if im going to be standing forever
don't do that lol! that crap looked lit af ! mosh pits everywhere
no lol i'm scared, i don't want it anymore
you have toooooo!!!



support a corrupt warmongering evil woman like hillary?
because she's not and you've been misled?
uhm.... how would that be?
i refer you to your original comment.
have you not seen the o'keefe videos and loads of wikileaks?
o'keefe? that's a riot. he specializes in getting low level staffers to mouth off, then edits them to make wild claims.
dude; did or did you not watch the videos?
yes. and if you can tell me how edited claims of a low level wisconsin staffer make clinton evil, feel free.
ps why where creamer and fogel fired if the videos where edited?
because the were low-level staffers making statements way above their paygrade.
if a walmart cashier started making up statements about how the ceo made decisions, how long would it take to fire them?



not going to escape, so i better go see ye
tbh would have preferred escape over ye, but wasn't gonna happen :(
dang , should have just shown up to escape in a wheel chair i would have helped raised you up during the sets
haha that wasn't the problem, i needed a ride and my sister wasn't going.
haha oh dang that sucks , should have rode with us lol
yea but i only knew of 1 person going and it's just weird to try and go solo lol
oh aww no rave fam. yeah and i tend to move around a lot stage to stage so i wouldn't expect you to tag along with us there lol
haha i know, too tragic. i wouldn't have mind but it depends on my schedule because i make them on who i wanna see 
lmfao i'm the same way but it's lowkey looking like i'm gonna stay at the bbutt rush stage i think it's chopping block
honestly, i would have stayed there too haha i was mainly going for hardwell but that did happen
but after snails i'll probably end off with hard well



ima really fight him
you better be talking bout someone else 
.... &amp; if im not?
im gonna be at your door step in 5 
not scared soo.... i'll be waiting to beat some butt
bring me food and ill let it slide
que quires comer?
que cres?
...hmm deja lo piensoi dont know
nothing pues 
okay okay i do know



quick, name me something more demoralizing than applying to jobs for which you are overqualified
applying to jobs for which you are perfectly qualified and not even getting a call
ugh ok yes i've been there too recently and blahhhhh
it sucks so hard
i am at my wit's end here
(hugs)i feel like that more often than i'd like to admit.
i sorta feel like i've made a huge mistake
did you quit your job
nah but i wanna
gotcha. i regret becoming a lawyer most days. i should have thought harder about this decision.
yes yes the days it's worth itcare gkorius. the rest? eh



getter dropped dragons by virtual riot, a riddim track, but i guess we're all just gona ignore it lol
right
oh my gosh were you there!?
yes!! i kept looking for you!
i was in the back gloving :)))
did you have fun?!
dude i had a lot of fun actually
same! so impressed with all the sets tonight
oh i  screwin hated the nick colletti thing i missed half empty :( saw half of aryay he was cool
aryay slaaayed! lawn mower is the jam
he closed with it  he played a lot more dub this time around



you watch greys anatomy ?
yes
me too, how do you like nccu so far ?
i like it. it's cool.
you have lots of friends?
yeah somewhat
what do you do for fun?
eat. partying. shop. chill. hang with friends.
do you want to go to lunch friday? since u like to eat?
i won't be at school.
going home?



checking amtrak tickets for blfc cabin, bed, private, bathroom, shower evetything $3400 4 days. flight 6 hours 400 round trip xd
*everything. that includes three meals a day with package. takes 4 days from my house. beautiful trip, love it but alone :(  
except for the solitude, seems like the trip one can dream of =)
it goes all across country and through rocky mountains. if anyone goes i will be happy to go too. hate alone trips.
sounds like a blast, but an excursion like that is out of my budget for the time being =(
someday*
with hard work, i'll join you one day for a retreat to remember, no slacking for me ^^
i would love to get a bunch of us together for a ride to blfc. #memories
would love to do that, and i'm sure we could find others =)
oh yes, i am sure we could. split cost makes.it more fun.  you could get three to a room easy 4 in family room
i'm sure we can talk at more length about it soon... if we split it 4 ways, i think we may be able to handle the expense =)



peanut butter is literally everything does anyone in the world literally not like it i was so emo now i'm eating pb&amp;nutella feelin brand new
nutella is trash smh
oh..... my gosh. the first absolute wait thing you've ever said. how tbh
woat not wait smfh
if you were mbone i'd screenshot that and pin it.
where the  screw is my cool nickname
kbone sounds like a meth addict tbh
good thing i just grabbed some meth then wouldn't wanna b a poser
kbone the deal
will be my banner some day soon cheers
congrats to me



what's the move
match 
wya
crib i need some though i aint got it
i'm on 21st
me too link up
i'm not mobile but wbuttup
shid we couldve copped &amp; matched but you aint mobile
dang i got mine
you got extra i can buy off you ?
plug in westwood



hhsur pep rally's ain't crapur student section ain't crapur sports ain't crap do u even have spirit days besides botb ? i'm curious .
okay stop  thats wrong
your football team wins sometimes .. the only thing worth being acknowledged is your basketball,wrestling, and water polo
every sport at hemet is better then wv ?
ya'll act like we ain't crap because our football team is the best .. but neither is yours lmao
like i said there is no sport at west valley better then hemet high . 
actually our water polo and swim are very successful along with our softball/baseball, and our volleyball teams ...
okay first your volleyball is no where close better then ours and baseball we won cif like a year ago 
we deserve just as much respect as ya'll do our players work hard in every sport just like yours do correct ?
nope cause if y'all did y'all would win 
welp i'm sorry but we will continue to respect and love our school along w showing nothing but support to our players



if you think about it, what's absent from the wikileaks emails is at least as intriguing as what's in them.
please go on, ron.
well, there's little or no substantive discussion of her health - neither confirming the spin of her camp or otherwise.
there's also very little about bill clinton, from what i've seen.
given the seeming candor if not recklessness of the stuff we have seen, there's a remarkable absence of emails about policy
it's almost as if this is a head fake - a calculated release of embarrbutting but unfortunately not really danging or &gt;
or criminal material and a studied absence of discussion about key issues, people and problems - complete with a media &gt;
and "expert" buy-in of this "russian hack" cover story to butture "authenticity" and imply completeness - yet virtually no &gt;
attempt to explain or deny the emails' authenticity. remarkably little. since when is the dnc shy about lying?
it's as if these were released to give the impression that we really have the whole story now and it's not that awful.
again, that observation arises from the gaps in subject matter, the lack of denials and the evident ease of the "hacks."
i'm starting to wonder who's really being played here and how. #wikileaks



wanna get my nose pierced so bad but i'm scared lol.
it's just a quick pinch ! i've had mine done 6 times lmao
i'm just a little pussy when it comes to piercings lol.
me and you both but yet i have tattoos 
lol i have no tattoos for the same reason, im such a baby!!
don't be! it doesn't hurt that bad with piercings bcus it goes by quick lol and tattoos you just have to not pick painful spots
i know i can handle the pain, but i just think about it too much and get scared lmao!
that's how my sister is!
crap if we can handle labor we can handle piercings and tattoos lol
ybutts girl ! no one has experience pain until they've been in labor
seriously tho, worst pain ever!!
right 



when i was in 8th grade i sneezed during the plege of allegiance and my homeroom teacher made me stand in the hallway for the rest of clbutt
omg who was it
hoos
i knew it was either her or carey lol
when my mom told her i got five "5s" on ap tests she said "i wish i saw that kind of performance out of him when i taught him"
(that's 5 fives in 1 year, i got seven 5s total if i remember correctly)
her and carey were the most cruel miserable teachers i ever met
he might have been before your time but ap euro "silva" hated me just as much, i think because i had long hair
mr carey used to squirt me with a water gun when i fell asleep in clbutt +say creepy crap so i put sand in his waterbottle
i usually think teachers should be treated better and stuff but hes a perverted piece of crap so idc
i tutored a girl in his clbutt like 3 years ago and he is lazy as hell at least in his curriculum
he didnt know why planets were round i had to correct him



built like a boneless wing tho
boy you built like a stuffed jalapeo pepper. gtfo my mentions bro. dont @ me
u look like a pickled pepper with ur plump pied piper plucker parakeet face butt
i honestly think you just had a seizure, you should seek medical attention with yo snap,crackle and pop built butt
at least i didn't miss the sack that woulda pushed dawson to the next round of playoffs smh
dang bruh, i hurt your feelings or something? can't handle it bro don't start it 
 u started it
you lucky i'm nice and don't roast your sports career on twitter. for that you owe me free laynes 
what sports career? i'm an engr major, i'm a nerd i don't play sports, what's sports?
i don't want any coleslaw with my laynes either 
laynes don't got coleslaw u sloppy butt boy
blah blah blah same crappy side item. aight chill i gotta sleep, i have a test tomorrow



160 days until the season starts. 164 days until opening day.
countdown mode! 
it's so far away 
i know but once when all the holidays are over. it will come by faster
especially because of spring training
yup!
i'm trying to go. my friends' team are also cactus league.
oh cool!
but clearly the angels are type priority.
to see them in spring training would be awesome!
it's a good thing it's in az. that way i can make a weekend trip.
very true



yo i got 104k my team for u
dang idk if i want that much. how much mut for it?
do u know the price of my team?
no i dont buy it. how much mut for 50k mt?
3:1 ratio cool?
if u need them now you can log in to my acct
its cool i can wait. how much mut coin u got?
i have to look, its like 600k i think. i sold some guys.
oh ok bro. ill probably just save this other 50k when u need it lol
yo ill just grab it all tomorrow
i'm free from 1-3 pm and after 9:30 pm pct.
if u get on tonight, post a card and dm it to me.



did i mention? im in love with switching positions wanna f**k you in the kitchenimma hit it from beside,he dontits a shame he dont 
nasty 
lmaooo stfu
no lol
you be doing the do 
lmaoooooo .
yea exactly can't say  i really don't do nothing 
lmaooo i just don't wanna put his name out there lol people probably out here lurking .
wow no  yea don't do that bro might get in trouble lmfaoo
lmaoooooooooooo   screw ! you funny .
i'm out . before we get somebody in trouble
lmao im out too



ready to get in the deer stand already!
im going sunday just to see if anything comes out and to blast the hogs that have been on my crap
where's that lease at?
livingston
you buy you a new rifle yet
no not yet been putting it off but ima hunt that stand with my shotgun &amp; ar it's only a 20 yard shot
have fun tracking 
nah they gon lay were they stand. hopefully 
hell not with that .223! i've shot em in the heart with a .243 and still had em run 50 yards lol. 30-06 drops em tho
i know i need to just go get that dude. the only thing holding me back is always having to replace crap on my truck lol
 screwing money pit lol. 7-12s coming up tho 
i'm ready for them 7 12's 



need to get some sleep
same
then get to it  or is it hot asf in your room too 
no not hot i just can't get comfortable 
i have that problem too. i bought two long butt pillows and they make it hard to get comfortable 
it's hard to get comfy when i share a bed with my two dogs  n they both move around too much
ohh dang. that's too much for me. i'd sleep on the floor 
like they have their own beds but still end up sleeping on my bed 
kick them out 
i can't  i love them way too much n they always get me w their puppy eyes 
that's why they do it. cause they know you won't kick them out. they have the power 
i'm like their idiot now huh 



so according to what i've seen, chad will not be on again until thursday. wtf??? #days
i'm fine with it. don't want to see anymore scenes with him &amp; gabi. the fewer the better.
i like chad and gabi as friends. i have no problem with it.
that's fine. i find them boring and shoved down our throats &amp; i see more than friends. jmo.
i love the scenes with chad and ari! i think they're adorable!
but he's not a father figure for her. sonny and jj should be having more scenes with her than chad.
it kind of seems to me like ari thinks of j.j as mommy's friend. she's too young to understand anything more than that.
it doesn't matter what ari thinks. we should see the bonding they  (gabi) talk about with j.j. and ari.
it seems to me like gabi's trying to make j.j and ari seem closer than they actually are.
i have no reason to not believe her. after all they have been together for a year. they should be close. -more than chad &amp; ari
j.j's only been a part of ari's life for a brief time.
i mean chad hasn't really been a part of ari's life since she was born. that's a stretch imo.



if he isn't obsessed with me , ion want him 

wbuttup hollywood 
like i'm pretty sure i texted yu multiple and i didn't get a response 
 i aint get no text
bs they all delivered
you can check my phone 
i can even check mine and in fact it even says yu read them 
you lyin  ion have my reads on  text me rn
now why would i lie? and why m? so yu can ignore them?
chill yo , blowin me up like that on twitter
jus wanted to let yu kno i'm doing ok



geology was dope today b/c we went downtown to look at the rocks of buildings &amp; even went to the tech museum to look at earthquake stuff 
was that a lab?
yes!!
is the clbutt called planet earth?
yes 
are you just taking the lab or the lecture too? whose ur prof for the lab?
i'm just taking the lab, i have colins!
awe i had loeb last year but it was a cool fun lab
aw yeah for a one unit lab it's pretty cool! dude being back in the tech museum made me think about senior prom! 
i went the other day too and i was like fuuuck all nostalgic and then i got sad thinking about what ppl are up to
aw i know crazy to think that was almost 3 years ago 
only got to look to the future now



buongiorno my friend! how are you?
good, hbu?
i'm good myself. waiting for titanfall 2 to drop already
2 days lol
too long lol
lol true. you getting it for xb1, or ps4?
xb1
aiight, i will go easy on you lol
haha you say that now, but wait till your begging for mercy lol
lol pfft.. mercy for you to put down the controller and reconsider lool
lol challenge accepted
on like donkey kong in a children's thong



my apartment was handing out plan b and condoms .... only at student apartments ..
stock up
that's when the low key dudes pop up
let them do what they wanna do it's how life works
whose man i gotta snatch
none cause we both don't got a man
but i'm snatching someone's
make sure he's good in and out of bed or we cut his head off
 dead
i'm jk don't be a home wrecker go get wined and dined lmao
we just talk  i'm wearing the cute outfit you gave me .. gotta put that to use
better be worth your time
i'll be serving looks



my favorite time is lillard time 
that's the best time! 
can't wait for them to come to philly so i can be that person at the game lol
you're in philadelphia?
yeah! moved here a few weeks ago!
dang that's crazy as hell! how do you like it out there?
honestly it's one of the best moves i've made. it's so fun being an hour away from nyc! it's a lot like portland in ways
i bet! i'm lowkey jealous. i love nyc. i think i'm moving to california tho.
see i was going to go back to california, but philly weirdly worked out better for me haha where abouts in california???
you all alone out there? or you got family? i got family in buena park near la, so that's where i'll be.
ugh i was gonna go back to la!!! no i have my best friend from disney here (thank gosh) she flew to pdx&amp;we drove back here!
that's dope, i want to come out there in the next few years my self! maybe i'll come visit! yeah i love la tho. 
do it!!! i love it because of all the history and stuff, but if you like portland, you'll like philly for sure!!



i'm a texan, going for a blue state. i miss ann richards. you can see my photo of her on my fb page, connie rose malone.
i love gov. ann richards and i miss her!
i knew liz carpenter. if you look at that photo, ann was leaning down and talking to liz carpenter. i wrote an article, 2.
wow! very nice!!!
ann was a travis county commissioner ...my county, before she was gov.
when ann ran for state treasurer, i worked on her campaign.
that's great! i worked on hillary's senate campaign.
wow!
nice to meet you.  i'm so excited and can't wait until 11-8.
me, too! i hope it works out. i know that it's going to be hard for her to serve because she won't be respected by some.
hillary works well with everyone.  she's going to surprise a lot of people.
i heard that she was liked in congress.
yes, that's true! very well liked.



halloween party is a costume party btw
can i come as myself?
for the past two years i've told rajae i want to be you for halloween but he never lets me do it
wait fr tho?
says no
but how would you do it
oh i'd do it and it would be awesome
you have to someday
when you're least expecting it obviously
for my birthday
would it then be my birthday too?
no
then i'm not interested



haven't we just come to accept tyrod being a game manager? knowing he doesn't really have any of his weapons
is it really fair to cast judgement on some of these pbuttes that he's making at this point because he doesn't have
many options
you just want to see him make plays with what he has. but he hasn't. it's troubling
well what does he really have man his 2 best targets are out and shady is hurt and if anything is troubling it's clay not
getting the ball
they're open.
make a play with his feet
some times a break down though, just asks for a qb to navigate the pocket, slide and find a new platform to throw.
line wasn't helping him much on sunday
give my film study a peak when it comes out this morning, you'll see what i'm talking about.
if you can throw me a link later on i'll check it out cuz i don't have the all 22 and i'm looking forward to seeing this
you got it



poor kate has been through the ringer. hope she is okay #fromdusktilldawn
i know right? i just wish she'd get the chance to kick butt. she's always getting hurt.
yeah. really hope she is saved next week
they can't kill kate. i already lost burt.
yeah. that sucked
i loved burt. couldn't they have switched his fate with sex machine?? burt was so cool!!!
yeah i agree. hilarious that so many wants sm dead 
before you added the weed to him. lol.
he was a huge buttet to the team. burt will be missed
yes he will. he and amaru stole the show this season.
madison has been amazing as amaru this season. definitely an emerging favorite of mine
you can tell she's got a great career ahead of her.
yeah she does. hope she stays till the end of series though



really not sure what to expect from miami heat this season
hopefully the 7th or 8th seed in the east
i could see 6th or maybe even 5th if everyone plays up to par and to the potential and it all starts with whiteside
idk eastern confrence has gotten way better, idk what to make of the heat's roster
it's a thinker of a situation but heat's roster is a ok one i'd say so ehhh idk
whiteside, haslem, dragic, winslow, richardson, and waitors are solid but idk what to make of the rest of the team
if those specific players can stay healthy and not be dumb and get suspensions or anything then miami could be decent i'd say
like i said hopefully 7th or 8th seed. knowing pat riley he is already planing for free agency 2017
nobody ever knows what riley gonna do, how he gonna shock us like he be doing but i agree with a 6,7 seed
the key to the season is seeing how whiteside handles being the star and how winslow &amp; richardson develop in their second year
exactly and we all know how whiteside's emotions can get the better of him oh man &amp; also i'm very hopefully of richardson
and hopefuly chris bosh can come back and play at some point this season. also i forgot about tyler johnson he can ball too
tyler johnson yes he good lowkey and it's an unknown situation for bosh, hopefully he can but i don't want him to risk it



not confident about tonight. think chelsea might steamroll us.
we have an outside chance but it's tough. a lot depends on how seriously conte is taking the competition.least we're improving
they have no europe so i'd imagine it'll be a strong team from them. hopefully it's a good game!
good point. hopefully! i'd love a cup run but honestly be pleased enough with a good performance and close game
this cup is quite short as well! 2 more wins and we're in the semi's!
yeah it's brilliant but don't wanna get ahead of myself with a tie like this!
definitely not. hopefully we get the job done. i'd take a nice win on pens! not sure my heart could handle it though!! 
odds on dimi to score a direct fk or solo run? or another lanzini v chelsea banger 
i'd be happy with any of the above!! i'd take a goal going in off zaza's backside!
i'd take an impossible goal from enner out in liverpool
i'd forgot all about enner until you mentioned him!  wonder how he's getting on?!
other than running away from police while playing for ecuador, so as not to pay child support, sitting on the everton bench :p
ah, good ol' enner. shame he can't play this weekend, reckon we might have a good chance of winning!!
not a good chance, 100% chance!



buongiorno my friend! how are you?
good, hbu?
i'm good myself. waiting for titanfall 2 to drop already
2 days lol
too long lol
lol true. you getting it for xb1, or ps4?
xb1
aiight, i will go easy on you lol
haha you say that now, but wait till your begging for mercy lol
lol pfft.. mercy for you to put down the controller and reconsider lool
lol challenge accepted
on like donkey kong in a children's thong
annnd i'll never look at dk the same
lol ahhh that was refreshing



best part of my day:student: *rolls eyes*me: i know you didn't just roll your eyes at me. you better be looking for your brain.
ewwww what ratchet would roll their eyes?
a boy that needs an butt whoopin from his mama. just 1 of 5 of my usual problem kids. it's like everyday his brain is reset.
ewww the sbutt at such a young age
seriously. note to parents: slap ya motha fcuken kids.
haha srsly. but you dealing with them hood rat kids tho
their parents were probably og hoodrats who shouldn't have reproduced.
yeah the kinda 16 and pregnant and goes out every night leaving their kid at home with the gparents
then when they actually take care of their kid, they feel they deserve an award for doing what they did...be a parent 
foreals!!! like "took my kid out for lunch"  bruhhh i can't even deal i know so many
"fed my kid breakfast, dropped him off to school, when's my 'me time?'" ha!
haha "it's hard being a parent" nigga you only babysat your own kid for 2 hours 
"shoulda pulled out" lol  parents need slaps themselves.
seriously! or wrap up if they can't take on responsibility



could chapter 3 setting be 1985?
can you tell your evidence or buttumptions for ch3 existence please ?
if iam not mistaken chap 1 and 2 are in 1984. with hideo doing glbuttes that are 1985 as a hint.
well, the plot ended at 1995 outer heaven where venom was killed there !
well there is a big gap in 1984 and 1995. he haven't got the rest of the story just yet.
what else do you expect other than disarmament scene/s ?
that is will unlock chapter 3,4,5
does these chapters include more scenes ? because nothing else showed up with datamining
of course from i get out of the fox engine. the code changes with each step. it makes its scenes in real time.
you mean there's coding for specific actions and voice acting but without video files ?!
speaking of data mine has anyone got a copy and not played it at all and data mine it?
don't know. what's the point of doing so ?
if so you probably only see chapter 1 i am guessing. hideo did in fact said he was scared noone would finish the game.
a game with a storyline only to be experienced by finishing an almost impossible online quest! let's wait and see.
i just hope we will see it soon. that could be way hideo is sad.



nothing but porn on my tml rn 
lmfaooo it's about that time
lmao  screw no
 my crap don't have those problems but ik i follow all the sluts and they active rn
u**
lol  screw around but i don't have to worry bout that no more 
word?? mbn bro
on me bro you can have that tho you got all the sluts anyways 
boy where they at tho my crap stay dry
what happened to the one you almost killed cause she couldn't breathe ? 
how many years ago was that
 on me that was long ago you at the lu now i wouldn't even 
nah man i don't go there
right 
i really don't 
good bro 



if any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. (1 cor. 3:18) #atheism #bible #gosh
yes your religion's hatred for intelligence, which sees right through it, is well known.
starting out the day being that judgmental can't be good friend.
says the judgemental one who views others as fools.
i haven't judged you. i quoted scripture. what happened was you read it and judged yourself. that's how the holy spirit works
nope, you judge others by the self serving words of your book.
self-serving? i'm trying to save you from eternal torment bud. and taking a torrent of abuse for it. get over yourself
"i'm right, anyone who disagrees with me is wrong and a fool." yeah doesn't get much more self serving.
this is not about me. it's about you, because you know in your heart that what i'm saying is true
you just proved it's all about your need to be right by claiming to know i know you're right.
you have been given the knowledge of gosh. you have no excuse
claiming to know that i know you're right is arrogance of the highest order. shame on you.
actually i'm referring to what the scriptures say. just doing my job and warning you that hell is real. #jesuschrist will save you
how you claim to know my mind is irrelevant, that you claim to is the point and shows breathtaking arrogance.
i know the scripture, which says that gosh knows your heart and mind, and the truth has been written there
not to mention, what a pathetically transparent "don't worry your head about why they don't believe" argument.
i'm not trying to convince you of anything, just laying it out for you. your response is entirely up to you



30 days until i'm free forever 

counting them down gf
i'm absolutely buzzingfor my main bf to be free
we've waited so long for this moment 
buckers wedding plans can start 
got the ring already, good deals here 
you know my ring size 
what do you take me for an amateur?
i'm yet to get used to your superior ways louyou impress too much
i'm pretty good
i am trusting your taste in 
it's a  screwing rock
ohawks...not too big though right? i've got little hands remember 
dw i got this all covered 
of course you have i shouldn't have ever doubtedhow we celebrating leaving the prison then?
by running away and never coming back



what is sleep
the crap you should be doing
i wish i could
rt.. listen to kodak he helps
i'm watching netflix hoping that would help but it just makes me wanna watch more so i might have to
rip hannah
hell no buy on some real crap that probably would've helped
you would of fell asleep like 4 hours ago
oh most definitely i'd get some good butt sleep too
now see why we love it so much m, and how good was home
oh my gosh it was the greatest movie ever i thought he died at first so i started to cry
moment of truth.. did you like lone survivor ..
i didn't watch all of it cause brielle wanted to watch it and she fell asleep but i watched like half and it was really good
i know every word in that movie
wtf do you watch it like everyday
used too
dang but i'm not even gonna lie that used to be me with frozen



my escape ticket seller just flaked on me!!still looking for 2 single saturday tickets to escape
saturday?? booooo
friday is extinct though !
sneak in!!!
lol i'm not a pretty asian girl like you that can just walk in 
i mean  do you follow the "rave exchange socal buy/sell" on fb?
yes lol that's where i've been trying to find tickets but so are thousands of others too lol
check craigs list!
lmfao friday tickets on cl are 350
bruhhhh wtd ppl are not plur hahahaha
right!!!! that went out the window when it it sold out lmfao
hella milking haha i wonder if ppl are actually buying bc seeing ppl willing to buy 200$ lol
 screw yeah they are you should see the page right now lol it's flooded with crazy people that are hungry to go
lollll so  screwing glad i bought mine &amp; don't have to deal w that crap 
thanks butthole hahaha
i'm telling you that venue is easy to sneak into!!
teach me how on thursday lol
okay! haha oh! i work 3-8 so would you rather get brunch??



this selena playlist got me jammin
i see you! 
gotta keep in touch con mi parte hispana
wait you're hispanic? 
you didn't know? 
quit lyin lol
you really think i would lie to you edgar? 
idk. would you? 
of course not, not to my future husband 
you right you right, sorry for doubting you 
don't let it happen again 
excuse me? 
you heard me 
we throwin hands now
we can throw hands, box, scrap, do karate, whatever you prefer 
oh yeah, we definitely throwing hands. on sight. don't let me catch you on my block
boyyyyy i hope i do catch you in these streets so i can  screw you up 
this is my block. i got my goons on the ready, don't try me



fun w/numbers on six flags q3 press release: a tweetstorm
six flags income dropped 24% in q3 b/c of compensation to executives for their likely success of "project 600" ($600m in adj ebitda by '17)
in order to achieve this goal, sf would need to grow ebitda by just under 14% from '15-17. this would be considered "aggressive"
problems: guest spending is trending down over the year, with per cap spend 1% lower in q3 than q3 2015 and up for year by less than 1%
q3 revenue was also down in peak months by 3% and ebitda was down roughly the same amount. earnings per share down 34%
six flags will indicate that expansion of holiday event should bring in new revenue, but trend of per cap spending drops shouldnt be ignored
very real possibility that their business plan is beginning to hit a wall. expanding season pbuttholder base has natural limits.
also addition of events has potential dilution effect wherein lieu of expanding attendance numbers, same amount just disperse over calendar
this means that while you still have to staff the parks for peak periods in summer, there are fewer guests generally arriving on off days
instead, they just show up later in the year.
tl;dr version: six flags growth is slowing/mb dunzo and may miss their projections but execs paid themselves like they would hit it anyways
enough, what about skittles
still not as good as m&amp;ms but both contain blue 1 which can cross the blood brain barrier and may cause neurocognitive probs
yeah that's the good stuff baby
if im gonna dement its gonna be because i enjoyed good butt m&amp;ms
m&amp;ms aren't in the skittles clbutt of artificial fruit though, also mars/hershey chocolate is objectively low rent
what is the pinnacle of artificial fruit? this is a debate i am for atm
well i would say skittles but also starburst are up there
i feel as though starburst via sheer size advantage are the more immersive fruit experience
they are so... juicy
yah otoh now and later should be destroyed and sent to hell



i love me some emma roberts and teresa palmer
emma roberts is sexy
yeah i guess i find teresa sexier for some reason
to each his own but i find emma sexier
i like emma movies though don't like her in scream queens though
ha sydney broke her phone  in nerve
yeah i just finished watching that movie and now i'm watching hocus pocus
you don't like john carpenters halloween
i do but my favorite is friday the 13th michael scars the living hell out of me
is the homie
he's now mine too much for me to handle
only demons scare me 
yeah i can't handle those movies either they give me major anxiety while trying to sleep
i can't handle exorcist
yeah same here can't handle lots of demon movies anymore guess it's my age before i could watch them with no problem
chucky i'll just start and lock  him in a room and burn it down
lol chicly is a little butthole my type of party lol
suck on him
lol
chiefs and fans piss me off like you only have one championship and no one remembers #generationgap



chiefs and fans piss me off like you only have one championship and no one remembers #generationgap
i wouldn't know i'm not a sports fan at all