THE CIRCULAR STAIRCASE


By

MARY ROBERTS RINEHART



CONTENTS




THE CIRCULAR STAIRCASE



CHAPTER I

I TAKE A COUNTRY HOUSE

This is the story of how a middle-aged spinster lost her mind, deserted
her domestic gods in the city, took a furnished house for the summer
out of town, and found herself involved in one of those mysterious
crimes that keep our newspapers and detective agencies happy and
prosperous.  For twenty years I had been perfectly comfortable; for
twenty years I had had the window-boxes filled in the spring, the
carpets lifted, the awnings put up and the furniture covered with brown
linen; for as many summers I had said good-by to my friends, and, after
watching their perspiring hegira, had settled down to a delicious quiet
in town, where the mail comes three times a day, and the water supply
does not depend on a tank on the roof.

And then--the madness seized me.  When I look back over the months I
spent at Sunnyside, I wonder that I survived at all.  As it is, I show
the wear and tear of my harrowing experiences.  I have turned very
gray--Liddy reminded me of it, only yesterday, by saying that a little
bluing in the rinse-water would make my hair silvery, instead of a
yellowish white.  I hate to be reminded of unpleasant things and I
snapped her off.

"No," I said sharply, "I'm not going to use bluing at my time of life,
or starch, either."

Liddy's nerves are gone, she says, since that awful summer, but she has
enough left, goodness knows!  And when she begins to go around with a
lump in her throat, all I have to do is to threaten to return to
Sunnyside, and she is frightened into a semblance of
cheerfulness,--from which you may judge that the summer there was
anything but a success.

The newspaper accounts have been so garbled and incomplete--one of them
mentioned me but once, and then only as the tenant at the time the
thing happened--that I feel it my due to tell what I know.  Mr.
Jamieson, the detective, said himself he could never have done without
me, although he gave me little enough credit, in print.

I shall have to go back several years--thirteen, to be exact--to start
my story.  At that time my brother died, leaving me his two children.
Halsey was eleven then, and Gertrude was seven.  All the
responsibilities of maternity were thrust upon me suddenly; to perfect
the profession of motherhood requires precisely as many years as the
child has lived, like the man who started to carry the calf and ended
by walking along with the bull on his shoulders.  However, I did the
best I could.  When Gertrude got past the hair-ribbon age, and Halsey
asked for a scarf-pin and put on long trousers--and a wonderful help
that was to the darning.--I sent them away to good schools.  After
that, my responsibility was chiefly postal, with three months every
summer in which to replenish their wardrobes, look over their lists of
acquaintances, and generally to take my foster-motherhood out of its
nine months' retirement in camphor.

I missed the summers with them when, somewhat later, at boarding-school
and college, the children spent much of their vacations with friends.
Gradually I found that my name signed to a check was even more welcome
than when signed to a letter, though I wrote them at stated intervals.
But when Halsey had finished his electrical course and Gertrude her
boarding-school, and both came home to stay, things were suddenly
changed.  The winter Gertrude came out was nothing but a succession of
sitting up late at night to bring her home from things, taking her to
the dressmakers between naps the next day, and discouraging ineligible
youths with either more money than brains, or more brains than money.
Also, I acquired a great many things: to say lingerie for
under-garments, "frocks" and "gowns" instead of dresses, and that
beardless sophomores are not college boys, but college men.  Halsey
required less personal supervision, and as they both got their mother's
fortune that winter, my responsibility became purely moral.  Halsey
bought a car, of course, and I learned how to tie over my bonnet a gray
baize veil, and, after a time, never to stop to look at the dogs one
has run down.  People are apt to be so unpleasant about their dogs.

The additions to my education made me a properly equipped maiden aunt,
and by spring I was quite tractable.  So when Halsey suggested camping
in the Adirondacks and Gertrude wanted Bar Harbor, we compromised on a
good country house with links near, within motor distance of town and
telephone distance of the doctor.  That was how we went to Sunnyside.

We went out to inspect the property, and it seemed to deserve its name.
Its cheerful appearance gave no indication whatever of anything out of
the ordinary.  Only one thing seemed unusual to me: the housekeeper,
who had been left in charge, had moved from the house to the gardener's
lodge, a few days before.  As the lodge was far enough away from the
house, it seemed to me that either fire or thieves could complete their
work of destruction undisturbed.  The property was an extensive one:
the house on the top of a hill, which sloped away in great stretches of
green lawn and clipped hedges, to the road; and across the valley,
perhaps a couple of miles away, was the Greenwood Club House.  Gertrude
and Halsey were infatuated.

"Why, it's everything you want," Halsey said "View, air, good water and
good roads.  As for the house, it's big enough for a hospital, if it
has a Queen Anne front and a Mary Anne back," which was ridiculous: it
was pure Elizabethan.

Of course we took the place; it was not my idea of comfort, being much
too large and sufficiently isolated to make the servant question
serious.  But I give myself credit for this: whatever has happened
since, I never blamed Halsey and Gertrude for taking me there.  And
another thing: if the series of catastrophes there did nothing else, it
taught me one thing--that somehow, somewhere, from perhaps a
half-civilized ancestor who wore a sheepskin garment and trailed his
food or his prey, I have in me the instinct of the chase.  Were I a man
I should be a trapper of criminals, trailing them as relentlessly as no
doubt my sheepskin ancestor did his wild boar.  But being an unmarried
woman, with the handicap of my sex, my first acquaintance with crime
will probably be my last.  Indeed, it came near enough to being my last
acquaintance with anything.

The property was owned by Paul Armstrong, the president of the Traders'
Bank, who at the time we took the house was in the west with his wife
and daughter, and a Doctor Walker, the Armstrong family physician.
Halsey knew Louise Armstrong,--had been rather attentive to her the
winter before, but as Halsey was always attentive to somebody, I had
not thought of it seriously, although she was a charming girl.  I knew
of Mr. Armstrong only through his connection with the bank, where the
children's money was largely invested, and through an ugly story about
the son, Arnold Armstrong, who was reported to have forged his father's
name, for a considerable amount, to some bank paper.  However, the
story had had no interest for me.

I cleared Halsey and Gertrude away to a house party, and moved out to
Sunnyside the first of May.  The roads were bad, but the trees were in
leaf, and there were still tulips in the borders around the house.  The
arbutus was fragrant in the woods under the dead leaves, and on the way
from the station, a short mile, while the car stuck in the mud, I found
a bank showered with tiny forget-me-nots.  The birds--don't ask me what
kind; they all look alike to me, unless they have a hall mark of some
bright color--the birds were chirping in the hedges, and everything
breathed of peace.  Liddy, who was born and bred on a brick pavement,
got a little bit down-spirited when the crickets began to chirp, or
scrape their legs together, or whatever it is they do, at twilight.

The first night passed quietly enough.  I have always been grateful for
that one night's peace; it shows what the country might be, under
favorable circumstances.  Never after that night did I put my head on
my pillow with any assurance how long it would be there; or on my
shoulders, for that matter.

On the following morning Liddy and Mrs. Ralston, my own housekeeper,
had a difference of opinion, and Mrs. Ralston left on the eleven train.
Just after luncheon, Burke, the butler, was taken unexpectedly with a
pain in his right side, much worse when I was within hearing distance,
and by afternoon he was started cityward.  That night the cook's sister
had a baby--the cook, seeing indecision in my face, made it twins on
second thought--and, to be short, by noon the next day the household
staff was down to Liddy and myself.  And this in a house with
twenty-two rooms and five baths!

Liddy wanted to go back to the city at once, but the milk-boy said that
Thomas Johnson, the Armstrongs' colored butler, was working as a waiter
at the Greenwood Club, and might come back. I have the usual scruples
about coercing people's servants away, but few of us have any
conscience regarding institutions or corporations--witness the way we
beat railroads and street-car companies when we can--so I called up the
club, and about eight o'clock Thomas Johnson came to see me.  Poor
Thomas!

Well, it ended by my engaging Thomas on the spot, at outrageous wages,
and with permission to sleep in the gardener's lodge, empty since the
house was rented.  The old man--he was white-haired and a little
stooped, but with an immense idea of his personal dignity--gave me his
reasons hesitatingly.

"I ain't sayin' nothin', Mis' Innes," he said, with his hand on the
door-knob, "but there's been goin's-on here this las' few months as
ain't natchal.  'Tain't one thing an' 'tain't another--it's jest a door
squealin' here, an' a winder closin' there, but when doors an' winders
gets to cuttin' up capers and there's nobody nigh 'em, it's time Thomas
Johnson sleeps somewhar's else."

Liddy, who seemed to be never more than ten feet away from me that
night, and was afraid of her shadow in that great barn of a place,
screamed a little, and turned a yellow-green.  But I am not easily
alarmed.

It was entirely in vain; I represented to Thomas that we were alone,
and that he would have to stay in the house that night. He was politely
firm, but he would come over early the next morning, and if I gave him
a key, he would come in time to get some sort of breakfast.  I stood on
the huge veranda and watched him shuffle along down the shadowy drive,
with mingled feelings--irritation at his cowardice and thankfulness at
getting him at all.  I am not ashamed to say that I double-locked the
hall door when I went in.

"You can lock up the rest of the house and go to bed, Liddy," I said
severely.  "You give me the creeps standing there.  A woman of your age
ought to have better sense."  It usually braces Liddy to mention her
age: she owns to forty--which is absurd.  Her mother cooked for my
grandfather, and Liddy must be at least as old as I.  But that night
she refused to brace.

"You're not going to ask me to lock up, Miss Rachel!" she quavered.
"Why, there's a dozen French windows in the drawing-room and the
billiard-room wing, and every one opens on a porch. And Mary Anne said
that last night there was a man standing by the stable when she locked
the kitchen door."

"Mary Anne was a fool," I said sternly.  "If there had been a man
there, she would have had him in the kitchen and been feeding him what
was left from dinner, inside of an hour, from force of habit.  Now
don't be ridiculous.  Lock up the house and go to bed.  I am going to
read."

But Liddy set her lips tight and stood still.

"I'm not going to bed," she said.  "I am going to pack up, and
to-morrow I am going to leave."

"You'll do nothing of the sort," I snapped.  Liddy and I often desire
to part company, but never at the same time.  "If you are afraid, I
will go with you, but for goodness' sake don't try to hide behind me."

The house was a typical summer residence on an extensive scale.
Wherever possible, on the first floor, the architect had done away with
partitions, using arches and columns instead.  The effect was cool and
spacious, but scarcely cozy.  As Liddy and I went from one window to
another, our voices echoed back at us uncomfortably.  There was plenty
of light--the electric plant down in the village supplied us--but there
were long vistas of polished floor, and mirrors which reflected us from
unexpected corners, until I felt some of Liddy's foolishness
communicate itself to me.

The house was very long, a rectangle in general form, with the main
entrance in the center of the long side.  The brick-paved entry opened
into a short hall to the right of which, separated only by a row of
pillars, was a huge living-room.  Beyond that was the drawing-room, and
in the end, the billiard-room.  Off the billiard-room, in the extreme
right wing, was a den, or card-room, with a small hall opening on the
east veranda, and from there went up a narrow circular staircase.
Halsey had pointed it out with delight.

"Just look, Aunt Rachel," he said with a flourish.  "The architect that
put up this joint was wise to a few things. Arnold Armstrong and his
friends could sit here and play cards all night and stumble up to bed
in the early morning, without having the family send in a police call."

Liddy and I got as far as the card-room and turned on all the lights.
I tried the small entry door there, which opened on the veranda, and
examined the windows.  Everything was secure, and Liddy, a little less
nervous now, had just pointed out to me the disgracefully dusty
condition of the hard-wood floor, when suddenly the lights went out.
We waited a moment; I think Liddy was stunned with fright, or she would
have screamed.  And then I clutched her by the arm and pointed to one
of the windows opening on the porch.  The sudden change threw the
window into relief, an oblong of grayish light, and showed us a figure
standing close, peering in.  As I looked it darted across the veranda
and out of sight in the darkness.



CHAPTER II

A LINK CUFF-BUTTON

Liddy's knees seemed to give away under her.  Without a sound she sank
down, leaving me staring at the window in petrified amazement.  Liddy
began to moan under her breath, and in my excitement I reached down and
shook her.

"Stop it," I whispered.  "It's only a woman--maybe a maid of the
Armstrongs'.  Get up and help me find the door."  She groaned again.
"Very well," I said, "then I'll have to leave you here. I'm going."

She moved at that, and, holding to my sleeve, we felt our way, with
numerous collisions, to the billiard-room, and from there to the
drawing-room.  The lights came on then, and, with the long French
windows unshuttered, I had a creepy feeling that each one sheltered a
peering face.  In fact, in the light of what happened afterward, I am
pretty certain we were under surveillance during the entire ghostly
evening.  We hurried over the rest of the locking-up and got upstairs
as quickly as we could.  I left the lights all on, and our footsteps
echoed cavernously.  Liddy had a stiff neck the next morning, from
looking back over her shoulder, and she refused to go to bed.

"Let me stay in your dressing-room, Miss Rachel," she begged. "If you
don't, I'll sit in the hall outside the door.  I'm not going to be
murdered with my eyes shut."

"If you're going to be murdered," I retorted, "it won't make any
difference whether they are shut or open.  But you may stay in the
dressing-room, if you will lie on the couch: when you sleep in a chair
you snore."

She was too far gone to be indignant, but after a while she came to the
door and looked in to where I was composing myself for sleep with
Drummond's Spiritual Life.

"That wasn't a woman, Miss Rachel," she said, with her shoes in her
hand.  "It was a man in a long coat."

"What woman was a man?"  I discouraged her without looking up, and she
went back to the couch.

It was eleven o'clock when I finally prepared for bed.  In spite of my
assumption of indifference, I locked the door into the hall, and
finding the transom did not catch, I put a chair cautiously before the
door--it was not necessary to rouse Liddy--and climbing up put on the
ledge of the transom a small dressing-mirror, so that any movement of
the frame would send it crashing down.  Then, secure in my precautions,
I went to bed.

I did not go to sleep at once.  Liddy disturbed me just as I was
growing drowsy, by coming in and peering under the bed.  She was afraid
to speak, however, because of her previous snubbing, and went back,
stopping in the doorway to sigh dismally.

Somewhere down-stairs a clock with a chime sang away the
hours--eleven-thirty, forty-five, twelve.  And then the lights went out
to stay.  The Casanova Electric Company shuts up shop and goes home to
bed at midnight: when one has a party, I believe it is customary to fee
the company, which will drink hot coffee and keep awake a couple of
hours longer.  But the lights were gone for good that night.  Liddy had
gone to sleep, as I knew she would.  She was a very unreliable person:
always awake and ready to talk when she wasn't wanted and dozing off to
sleep when she was.  I called her once or twice, the only result being
an explosive snore that threatened her very windpipe--then I got up and
lighted a bedroom candle.

My bedroom and dressing room were above the big living-room on the
first floor.  On the second floor a long corridor ran the length of the
house, with rooms opening from both sides.  In the wings were small
corridors crossing the main one--the plan was simplicity itself.  And
just as I got back into bed, I heard a sound from the east wing,
apparently, that made me stop, frozen, with one bedroom slipper half
off, and listen.  It was a rattling metallic sound, and it reverberated
along the empty halls like the crash of doom.  It was for all the world
as if something heavy, perhaps a piece of steel, had rolled clattering
and jangling down the hard-wood stairs leading to the card-room.

In the silence that followed Liddy stirred and snored again.  I was
exasperated: first she kept me awake by silly alarms, then when she was
needed she slept like Joe Jefferson, or Rip,--they are always the same
to me.  I went in and aroused her, and I give her credit for being wide
awake the minute I spoke.

"Get up," I said, "if you don't want to be murdered in your bed."

"Where?  How?" she yelled vociferously, and jumped up.

"There's somebody in the house," I said.  "Get up.  We'll have to get
to the telephone."

"Not out in the hall!" she gasped; "Oh, Miss Rachel, not out in the
hall!" trying to hold me back.  But I am a large woman and Liddy is
small.  We got to the door, somehow, and Liddy held a brass andiron,
which it was all she could do to lift, let alone brain anybody with.  I
listened, and, hearing nothing, opened the door a little and peered
into the hall.  It was a black void, full of terrible suggestion, and
my candle only emphasized the gloom.  Liddy squealed and drew me back
again, and as the door slammed, the mirror I had put on the transom
came down and hit her on the head.  That completed our demoralization.
It was some time before I could persuade her she had not been attacked
from behind by a burglar, and when she found the mirror smashed on the
floor she wasn't much better.

"There's going to be a death!" she wailed.  "Oh, Miss Rachel, there's
going to be a death!"

"There will be," I said grimly, "if you don't keep quiet, Liddy Allen."

And so we sat there until morning, wondering if the candle would last
until dawn, and arranging what trains we could take back to town.  If
we had only stuck to that decision and gone back before it was too late!

The sun came finally, and from my window I watched the trees along the
drive take shadowy form, gradually lose their ghostlike appearance,
become gray and then green.  The Greenwood Club showed itself a dab of
white against the hill across the valley, and an early robin or two
hopped around in the dew.  Not until the milk-boy and the sun came,
about the same time, did I dare to open the door into the hall and look
around.  Everything was as we had left it.  Trunks were heaped here and
there, ready for the trunk-room, and through an end window of stained
glass came a streak of red and yellow daylight that was eminently
cheerful. The milk-boy was pounding somewhere below, and the day had
begun.

Thomas Johnson came ambling up the drive about half-past six, and we
could hear him clattering around on the lower floor, opening shutters.
I had to take Liddy to her room up-stairs, however,--she was quite sure
she would find something uncanny. In fact, when she did not, having now
the courage of daylight, she was actually disappointed.

Well, we did not go back to town that day.

The discovery of a small picture fallen from the wall of the
drawing-room was quite sufficient to satisfy Liddy that the alarm had
been a false one, but I was anything but convinced.  Allowing for my
nerves and the fact that small noises magnify themselves at night,
there was still no possibility that the picture had made the series of
sounds I heard.  To prove it, however, I dropped it again.  It fell
with a single muffled crash of its wooden frame, and incidentally
ruined itself beyond repair.  I justified myself by reflecting that if
the Armstrongs chose to leave pictures in unsafe positions, and to rent
a house with a family ghost, the destruction of property was their
responsibility, not mine.

I warned Liddy not to mention what had happened to anybody, and
telephoned to town for servants.  Then after a breakfast which did more
credit to Thomas' heart than his head, I went on a short tour of
investigation.  The sounds had come from the east wing, and not without
some qualms I began there.  At first I found nothing.  Since then I
have developed my powers of observation, but at that time I was a
novice.  The small card-room seemed undisturbed.  I looked for
footprints, which is, I believe, the conventional thing to do, although
my experience has been that as clues both footprints and thumb-marks
are more useful in fiction than in fact.  But the stairs in that wing
offered something.

At the top of the flight had been placed a tall wicker hamper, packed,
with linen that had come from town.  It stood at the edge of the top
step, almost barring passage, and on the step below it was a long fresh
scratch.  For three steps the scratch was repeated, gradually
diminishing, as if some object had fallen, striking each one.  Then for
four steps nothing.  On the fifth step below was a round dent in the
hard wood.  That was all, and it seemed little enough, except that I
was positive the marks had not been there the day before.

It bore out my theory of the sound, which had been for all the world
like the bumping of a metallic object down a flight of steps.  The four
steps had been skipped.  I reasoned that an iron bar, for instance,
would do something of the sort,--strike two or three steps, end down,
then turn over, jumping a few stairs, and landing with a thud.

Iron bars, however, do not fall down-stairs in the middle of the night
alone.  Coupled with the figure on the veranda the agency by which it
climbed might be assumed.  But--and here was the thing that puzzled me
most--the doors were all fastened that morning, the windows unmolested,
and the particular door from the card-room to the veranda had a
combination lock of which I held the key, and which had not been
tampered with.

I fixed on an attempt at burglary, as the most natural explanation--an
attempt frustrated by the falling of the object, whatever it was, that
had roused me.  Two things I could not understand: how the intruder had
escaped with everything locked, and why he had left the small silver,
which, in the absence of a butler, had remained down-stairs over night.

Under pretext of learning more about the place, Thomas Johnson led me
through the house and the cellars, without result. Everything was in
good order and repair; money had been spent lavishly on construction
and plumbing.  The house was full of conveniences, and I had no reason
to repent my bargain, save the fact that, in the nature of things,
night must come again. And other nights must follow--and we were a long
way from a police-station.

In the afternoon a hack came up from Casanova, with a fresh relay of
servants.  The driver took them with a flourish to the servants'
entrance, and drove around to the front of the house, where I was
awaiting him.

"Two dollars," he said in reply to my question.  "I don't charge full
rates, because, bringin' 'em up all summer as I do, it pays to make a
special price.  When they got off the train, I sez, sez I, 'There's
another bunch for Sunnyside, cook, parlor maid and all.'  Yes'm--six
summers, and a new lot never less than once a month.  They won't stand
for the country and the lonesomeness, I reckon."

But with the presence of the "bunch" of servants my courage revived,
and late in the afternoon came a message from Gertrude that she and
Halsey would arrive that night at about eleven o'clock, coming in the
car from Richfield.  Things were looking up; and when Beulah, my cat, a
most intelligent animal, found some early catnip on a bank near the
house and rolled in it in a feline ecstasy, I decided that getting back
to nature was the thing to do.

While I was dressing for dinner, Liddy rapped at the door.  She was
hardly herself yet, but privately I think she was worrying about the
broken mirror and its augury, more than anything else. When she came in
she was holding something in her hand, and she laid it on the
dressing-table carefully.

"I found it in the linen hamper," she said.  "It must be Mr. Halsey's,
but it seems queer how it got there."

It was the half of a link cuff-button of unique design, and I looked at
it carefully.

"Where was it?  In the bottom of the hamper?" I asked.

"On the very top," she replied.  "It's a mercy it didn't fall out on
the way."

When Liddy had gone I examined the fragment attentively.  I had never
seen it before, and I was certain it was not Halsey's.  It was of
Italian workmanship, and consisted of a mother-of-pearl foundation,
encrusted with tiny seed-pearls, strung on horsehair to hold them.  In
the center was a small ruby.  The trinket was odd enough, but not
intrinsically of great value.  Its interest for me lay in this:  Liddy
had found it lying in the top of the hamper which had blocked the
east-wing stairs.

That afternoon the Armstrongs' housekeeper, a youngish good-looking
woman, applied for Mrs. Ralston's place, and I was glad enough to take
her.  She looked as though she might be equal to a dozen of Liddy, with
her snapping black eyes and heavy jaw.  Her name was Anne Watson, and I
dined that evening for the first time in three days.



CHAPTER III

MR. JOHN BAILEY APPEARS

I had dinner served in the breakfast-room.  Somehow the huge
dining-room depressed me, and Thomas, cheerful enough all day, allowed
his spirits to go down with the sun.  He had a habit of watching the
corners of the room, left shadowy by the candles on the table, and
altogether it was not a festive meal.

Dinner over I went into the living-room.  I had three hours before the
children could possibly arrive, and I got out my knitting.  I had
brought along two dozen pairs of slipper soles in assorted sizes--I
always send knitted slippers to the Old Ladies' Home at Christmas--and
now I sorted over the wools with a grim determination not to think
about the night before.  But my mind was not on my work: at the end of
a half-hour I found I had put a row of blue scallops on Eliza
Klinefelter's lavender slippers, and I put them away.

I got out the cuff-link and went with it to the pantry.  Thomas was
wiping silver and the air was heavy with tobacco smoke.  I sniffed and
looked around, but there was no pipe to be seen.

"Thomas," I said, "you have been smoking."

"No, ma'm."  He was injured innocence itself.  "It's on my coat, ma'm.
Over at the club the gentlemen--"

But Thomas did not finish.  The pantry was suddenly filled with the
odor of singeing cloth.  Thomas gave a clutch at his coat, whirled to
the sink, filled a tumbler with water and poured it into his right
pocket with the celerity of practice.

"Thomas," I said, when he was sheepishly mopping the floor, "smoking is
a filthy and injurious habit.  If you must smoke, you must; but don't
stick a lighted pipe in your pocket again.  Your skin's your own: you
can blister it if you like.  But this house is not mine, and I don't
want a conflagration.  Did you ever see this cuff-link before?"

No, he never had, he said, but he looked at it oddly.

"I picked it up in the hall," I added indifferently.  The old man's
eyes were shrewd under his bushy eyebrows.

"There's strange goin's-on here, Mis' Innes," he said, shaking his
head.  "Somethin's goin' to happen, sure.  You ain't took notice that
the big clock in the hall is stopped, I reckon?"

"Nonsense," I said.  "Clocks have to stop, don't they, if they're not
wound?"

"It's wound up, all right, and it stopped at three o'clock last night,"
he answered solemnly.  "More'n that, that there clock ain't stopped for
fifteen years, not since Mr. Armstrong's first wife died.  And that
ain't all,--no MA'M.  Last three nights I slep' in this place, after
the electrics went out I had a token. My oil lamp was full of oil, but
it kep' goin' out, do what I would.  Minute I shet my eyes, out that
lamp'd go.  There ain't no surer token of death.  The Bible sez, LET
YER LIGHT SHINE! When a hand you can't see puts yer light out, it means
death, sure."

The old man's voice was full of conviction.  In spite of myself I had a
chilly sensation in the small of my back, and I left him mumbling over
his dishes.  Later on I heard a crash from the pantry, and Liddy
reported that Beulah, who is coal black, had darted in front of Thomas
just as he picked up a tray of dishes; that the bad omen had been too
much for him, and he had dropped the tray.

The chug of the automobile as it climbed the hill was the most welcome
sound I had heard for a long time, and with Gertrude and Halsey
actually before me, my troubles seemed over for good. Gertrude stood
smiling in the hall, with her hat quite over one ear, and her hair in
every direction under her pink veil. Gertrude is a very pretty girl, no
matter how her hat is, and I was not surprised when Halsey presented a
good-looking young man, who bowed at me and looked at Trude--that is
the ridiculous nickname Gertrude brought from school.

"I have brought a guest, Aunt Ray," Halsey said.  "I want you to adopt
him into your affections and your Saturday-to-Monday list. Let me
present John Bailey, only you must call him Jack.  In twelve hours
he'll be calling you 'Aunt': I know him."

We shook hands, and I got a chance to look at Mr. Bailey; he was a tall
fellow, perhaps thirty, and he wore a small mustache.  I remember
wondering why: he seemed to have a good mouth and when he smiled his
teeth were above the average.  One never knows why certain men cling to
a messy upper lip that must get into things, any more than one
understands some women building up their hair on wire atrocities.
Otherwise, he was very good to look at, stalwart and tanned, with the
direct gaze that I like. I am particular about Mr. Bailey, because he
was a prominent figure in what happened later.

Gertrude was tired with the trip and went up to bed very soon.  I made
up my mind to tell them nothing; until the next day, and then to make
as light of our excitement as possible.  After all, what had I to tell?
An inquisitive face peering in at a window; a crash in the night; a
scratch or two on the stairs, and half a cuff-button!  As for Thomas
and his forebodings, it was always my belief that a negro is one part
thief, one part pigment, and the rest superstition.

It was Saturday night.  The two men went to the billiard-room, and I
could hear them talking as I went up-stairs.  It seemed that Halsey had
stopped at the Greenwood Club for gasolene and found Jack Bailey there,
with the Sunday golf crowd.  Mr. Bailey had not been hard to
persuade--probably Gertrude knew why--and they had carried him off
triumphantly.  I roused Liddy to get them something to eat--Thomas was
beyond reach in the lodge--and paid no attention to her evident terror
of the kitchen regions.  Then I went to bed.  The men were still in the
billiard-room when I finally dozed off, and the last thing I remember
was the howl of a dog in front of the house.  It wailed a crescendo of
woe that trailed off hopefully, only to break out afresh from a new
point of the compass.

At three o'clock in the morning I was roused by a revolver shot. The
sound seemed to come from just outside my door.  For a moment I could
not move.  Then--I heard Gertrude stirring in her room, and the next
moment she had thrown open the connecting door.

"O Aunt Ray!  Aunt Ray!" she cried hysterically.  "Some one has been
killed, killed!"

"Thieves," I said shortly.  "Thank goodness, there are some men in the
house to-night."  I was getting into my slippers and a bath-robe, and
Gertrude with shaking hands was lighting a lamp. Then we opened the
door into the hall, where, crowded on the upper landing of the stairs,
the maids, white-faced and trembling, were peering down, headed by
Liddy.  I was greeted by a series of low screams and questions, and I
tried to quiet them.

Gertrude had dropped on a chair and sat there limp and shivering.

I went at once across the hall to Halsey's room and knocked; then I
pushed the door open.  It was empty; the bed had not been occupied!

"He must be in Mr. Bailey's room," I said excitedly, and followed by
Liddy, we went there.  Like Halsey's, it had not been occupied!
Gertrude was on her feet now, but she leaned against the door for
support.

"They have been killed!" she gasped.  Then she caught me by the arm and
dragged me toward the stairs.  "They may only be hurt, and we must find
them," she said, her eyes dilated with excitement.

I don't remember how we got down the stairs: I do remember expecting
every moment to be killed.  The cook was at the telephone up-stairs,
calling the Greenwood Club, and Liddy was behind me, afraid to come and
not daring to stay behind.  We found the living-room and the
drawing-room undisturbed.  Somehow I felt that whatever we found would
be in the card-room or on the staircase, and nothing but the fear that
Halsey was in danger drove me on; with every step my knees seemed to
give way under me.  Gertrude was ahead and in the card-room she
stopped, holding her candle high.  Then she pointed silently to the
doorway into the hall beyond.  Huddled there on the floor, face down,
with his arms extended, was a man.

Gertrude ran forward with a gasping sob.  "Jack," she cried, "oh, Jack!"

Liddy had run, screaming, and the two of us were there alone.  It was
Gertrude who turned him over, finally, until we could see his white
face, and then she drew a deep breath and dropped limply to her knees.
It was the body of a man, a gentleman, in a dinner coat and white
waistcoat, stained now with blood--the body of a man I had never seen
before.



CHAPTER IV

WHERE IS HALSEY?

Gertrude gazed at the face in a kind of fascination.  Then she put out
her hands blindly, and I thought she was going to faint.

"He has killed him!"  she muttered almost inarticulately; and at that,
because my nerves were going, I gave her a good shake.

"What do you mean?" I said frantically.  There was a depth of grief and
conviction in her tone that was worse than anything she could have
said.  The shake braced her, anyhow, and she seemed to pull herself
together.  But not another word would she say: she stood gazing down at
that gruesome figure on the floor, while Liddy, ashamed of her flight
and afraid to come back alone, drove before her three terrified
women-servants into the drawing-room, which was as near as any of them
would venture.

Once in the drawing-room, Gertrude collapsed and went from one fainting
spell into another.  I had all I could do to keep Liddy from drowning
her with cold water, and the maids huddled in a corner, as much use as
so many sheep.  In a short time, although it seemed hours, a car came
rushing up, and Anne Watson, who had waited to dress, opened the door.
Three men from the Greenwood Club, in all kinds of costumes, hurried
in.  I recognized a Mr. Jarvis, but the others were strangers.

"What's wrong?" the Jarvis man asked--and we made a strange picture, no
doubt.  "Nobody hurt, is there?"  He was looking at Gertrude.

"Worse than that, Mr. Jarvis," I said.  "I think it is murder."

At the word there was a commotion.  The cook began to cry, and Mrs.
Watson knocked over a chair.  The men were visibly impressed.

"Not any member of the family?" Mr. Jarvis asked, when he had got his
breath.

"No," I said; and motioning Liddy to look after Gertrude, I led the way
with a lamp to the card-room door.  One of the men gave an exclamation,
and they all hurried across the room.  Mr. Jarvis took the lamp from
me--I remember that--and then, feeling myself getting dizzy and
light-headed, I closed my eyes.  When I opened them their brief
examination was over, and Mr. Jarvis was trying to put me in a chair.

"You must get up-stairs," he said firmly, "you and Miss Gertrude, too.
This has been a terrible shock.  In his own home, too."

I stared at him without comprehension.  "Who is it?" I asked with
difficulty.  There was a band drawn tight around my throat.

"It is Arnold Armstrong," he said, looking at me oddly, "and he has
been murdered in his father's house."

After a minute I gathered myself together and Mr. Jarvis helped me into
the living-room.  Liddy had got Gertrude up-stairs, and the two strange
men from the club stayed with the body.  The reaction from the shock
and strain was tremendous: I was collapsed--and then Mr. Jarvis asked
me a question that brought back my wandering faculties.

"Where is Halsey?" he asked.

"Halsey!"  Suddenly Gertrude's stricken face rose before me the empty
rooms up-stairs.  Where was Halsey?

"He was here, wasn't he?" Mr. Jarvis persisted.  "He stopped at the
club on his way over."

"I--don't know where he is," I said feebly.

One of the men from the club came in, asked for the telephone, and I
could hear him excitedly talking, saying something about coroners and
detectives.  Mr. Jarvis leaned over to me.

"Why don't you trust me, Miss Innes?" he said.  "If I can do anything I
will.  But tell me the whole thing."

I did, finally, from the beginning, and when I told of Jack Bailey's
being in the house that night, he gave a long whistle.

"I wish they were both here," he said when I finished.  "Whatever mad
prank took them away, it would look better if they were here.
Especially--"

"Especially what?"

"Especially since Jack Bailey and Arnold Armstrong were notoriously bad
friends.  It was Bailey who got Arnold into trouble last
spring--something about the bank.  And then, too--"

"Go on," I said.  "If there is anything more, I ought to know."

"There's nothing more," he said evasively.  "There's just one thing we
may bank on, Miss Innes.  Any court in the country will acquit a man
who kills an intruder in his house, at night.  If Halsey--"

"Why, you don't think Halsey did it!" I exclaimed.  There was a queer
feeling of physical nausea coming over me.

"No, no, not at all," he said with forced cheerfulness.  "Come, Miss
Innes, you're a ghost of yourself and I am going to help you up-stairs
and call your maid.  This has been too much for you."

Liddy helped me back to bed, and under the impression that I was in
danger of freezing to death, put a hot-water bottle over my heart and
another at my feet.  Then she left me.  It was early dawn now, and from
voices under my window I surmised that Mr. Jarvis and his companions
were searching the grounds.  As for me, I lay in bed, with every
faculty awake.  Where had Halsey gone? How had he gone, and when?
Before the murder, no doubt, but who would believe that?  If either he
or Jack Bailey had heard an intruder in the house and shot him--as they
might have been justified in doing--why had they run away?  The whole
thing was unheard of, outrageous, and--impossible to ignore.

About six o'clock Gertrude came in.  She was fully dressed, and I sat
up nervously.

"Poor Aunty!" she said.  "What a shocking night you have had!" She came
over and sat down on the bed, and I saw she looked very tired and worn.

"Is there anything new?" I asked anxiously.

"Nothing.  The car is gone, but Warner"--he is the chauffeur--"Warner
is at the lodge and knows nothing about it."

"Well," I said, "if I ever get my hands on Halsey Innes, I shall not
let go until I have told him a few things.  When we get this cleared
up, I am going back to the city to be quiet.  One more night like the
last two will end me.  The peace of the country--fiddle sticks!"

Whereupon I told Gertrude of the noises the night before, and the
figure on the veranda in the east wing.  As an afterthought I brought
out the pearl cuff-link.

"I have no doubt now," I said, "that it was Arnold Armstrong the night
before last, too.  He had a key, no doubt, but why he should steal into
his father's house I can not imagine.  He could have come with my
permission, easily enough.  Anyhow, whoever it was that night, left
this little souvenir."

Gertrude took one look at the cuff-link, and went as white as the
pearls in it; she clutched at the foot of the bed, and stood staring.
As for me, I was quite as astonished as she was.

"Where did--you--find it?" she asked finally, with a desperate effort
at calm.  And while I told her she stood looking out of the window with
a look I could not fathom on her face.  It was a relief when Mrs.
Watson tapped at the door and brought me some tea and toast.  The cook
was in bed, completely demoralized, she reported, and Liddy, brave with
the daylight, was looking for footprints around the house.  Mrs. Watson
herself was a wreck; she was blue-white around the lips, and she had
one hand tied up.

She said she had fallen down-stairs in her excitement.  It was natural,
of course, that the thing would shock her, having been the Armstrongs'
housekeeper for several years, and knowing Mr. Arnold well.

Gertrude had slipped out during my talk with Mrs. Watson, and I dressed
and went down-stairs.  The billiard and card-rooms were locked until
the coroner and the detectives got there, and the men from the club had
gone back for more conventional clothing.

I could hear Thomas in the pantry, alternately wailing for Mr. Arnold,
as he called him, and citing the tokens that had precursed the murder.
The house seemed to choke me, and, slipping a shawl around me, I went
out on the drive.  At the corner by the east wing I met Liddy.  Her
skirts were draggled with dew to her knees, and her hair was still in
crimps.

"Go right in and change your clothes," I said sharply.  "You're a
sight, and at your age!"

She had a golf-stick in her hand, and she said she had found it on the
lawn.  There was nothing unusual about it, but it occurred to me that a
golf-stick with a metal end might have been the object that had
scratched the stairs near the card-room.  I took it from her, and sent
her up for dry garments.  Her daylight courage and self-importance, and
her shuddering delight in the mystery, irritated me beyond words.
After I left her I made a circuit of the building.  Nothing seemed to
be disturbed: the house looked as calm and peaceful in the morning sun
as it had the day I had been coerced into taking it.  There was nothing
to show that inside had been mystery and violence and sudden death.

In one of the tulip beds back of the house an early blackbird was
pecking viciously at something that glittered in the light. I picked my
way gingerly over through the dew and stooped down: almost buried in
the soft ground was a revolver!  I scraped the earth off it with the
tip of my shoe, and, picking it up, slipped it into my pocket.  Not
until I had got into my bedroom and double-locked the door did I
venture to take it out and examine it.  One look was all I needed.  It
was Halsey's revolver.  I had unpacked it the day before and put it on
his shaving-stand, and there could be no mistake.  His name was on a
small silver plate on the handle.

I seemed to see a network closing around my boy, innocent as I knew he
was.  The revolver--I am afraid of them, but anxiety gave me courage to
look through the barrel--the revolver had still two bullets in it.  I
could only breathe a prayer of thankfulness that I had found the
revolver before any sharp-eyed detective had come around.

I decided to keep what clues I had, the cuff-link, the golf-stick and
the revolver, in a secure place until I could see some reason for
displaying them.  The cuff-link had been dropped into a little filigree
box on my toilet table.  I opened the box and felt around for it.  The
box was empty--the cuff-link had disappeared!



CHAPTER V

GERTRUDE'S ENGAGEMENT

At ten o'clock the Casanova hack brought up three men.  They introduced
themselves as the coroner of the county and two detectives from the
city.  The coroner led the way at once to the locked wing, and with the
aid of one of the detectives examined the rooms and the body.  The
other detective, after a short scrutiny of the dead man, busied himself
with the outside of the house.  It was only after they had got a fair
idea of things as they were that they sent for me.

I received them in the living-room, and I had made up my mind exactly
what to tell.  I had taken the house for the summer, I said, while the
Armstrongs were in California.  In spite of a rumor among the servants
about strange noises--I cited Thomas--nothing had occurred the first
two nights.  On the third night I believed that some one had been in
the house: I had heard a crashing sound, but being alone with one maid
had not investigated.  The house had been locked in the morning and
apparently undisturbed.

Then, as clearly as I could, I related how, the night before, a shot
had roused us; that my niece and I had investigated and found a body;
that I did not know who the murdered man was until Mr. Jarvis from the
club informed me, and that I knew of no reason why Mr. Arnold Armstrong
should steal into his father's house at night.  I should have been glad
to allow him entree there at any time.

"Have you reason to believe, Miss Innes," the coroner asked, "that any
member of your household, imagining Mr. Armstrong was a burglar, shot
him in self-defense?"

"I have no reason for thinking so," I said quietly.

"Your theory is that Mr. Armstrong was followed here by some enemy, and
shot as he entered the house?"

"I don't think I have a theory," I said.  "The thing that has puzzled
me is why Mr. Armstrong should enter his father's house two nights in
succession, stealing in like a thief, when he needed only to ask
entrance to be admitted."

The coroner was a very silent man: he took some notes after this, but
he seemed anxious to make the next train back to town.  He set the
inquest for the following Saturday, gave Mr. Jamieson, the younger of
the two detectives, and the more intelligent looking, a few
instructions, and, after gravely shaking hands with me and regretting
the unfortunate affair, took his departure, accompanied by the other
detective.

I was just beginning to breathe freely when Mr. Jamieson, who had been
standing by the window, came over to me.

"The family consists of yourself alone, Miss Innes?"

"My niece is here," I said.

"There is no one but yourself and your niece?"

"My nephew."  I had to moisten my lips.

"Oh, a nephew.  I should like to see him, if he is here."

"He is not here just now," I said as quietly as I could.  "I expect
him--at any time."

"He was here yesterday evening, I believe?"

"No--yes."

"Didn't he have a guest with him?  Another man?"

"He brought a friend with him to stay over Sunday, Mr. Bailey."

"Mr. John Bailey, the cashier of the Traders' Bank I believe." And I
knew that some one at the Greenwood Club had told.  "When did they
leave?"

"Very early--I don't know at just what time."

Mr. Jamieson turned suddenly and looked at me.

"Please try to be more explicit," he said.  "You say your nephew and
Mr. Bailey were in the house last night, and yet you and your niece,
with some women-servants, found the body.  Where was your nephew?"

I was entirely desperate by that time.

"I do not know," I cried, "but be sure of this: Halsey knows nothing of
this thing, and no amount of circumstantial evidence can make an
innocent man guilty."

"Sit down," he said, pushing forward a chair.  "There are some things I
have to tell you, and, in return, please tell me all you know.  Believe
me, things always come out.  In the first place, Mr. Armstrong was shot
from above.  The bullet was fired at close range, entered below the
shoulder and came out, after passing through the heart, well down the
back.  In other words, I believe the murderer stood on the stairs and
fired down.  In the second place, I found on the edge of the
billiard-table a charred cigar which had burned itself partly out, and
a cigarette which had consumed itself to the cork tip.  Neither one had
been more than lighted, then put down and forgotten.  Have you any idea
what it was that made your nephew and Mr. Bailey leave their cigars and
their game, take out the automobile without calling the chauffeur, and
all this at--let me see certainly before three o'clock in the morning?"

"I don't know," I said; "but depend on it, Mr. Jamieson, Halsey will be
back himself to explain everything."

"I sincerely hope so," he said.  "Miss Innes, has it occurred to you
that Mr. Bailey might know something of this?"

Gertrude had come down-stairs and just as he spoke she came in. I saw
her stop suddenly, as if she had been struck.

"He does not," she said in a tone that was not her own.  "Mr. Bailey
and my brother know nothing of this.  The murder was committed at
three.  They left the house at a quarter before three."

"How do you know that?" Mr. Jamieson asked oddly.  "Do you KNOW at what
time they left?"

"I do," Gertrude answered firmly.  "At a quarter before three my
brother and Mr. Bailey left the house, by the main entrance.
I--was--there."

"Gertrude," I said excitedly, "you are dreaming!  Why, at a quarter to
three--"

"Listen," she said.  "At half-past two the downstairs telephone rang.
I had not gone to sleep, and I heard it.  Then I heard Halsey answer
it, and in a few minutes he came up-stairs and knocked at my door.
We--we talked for a minute, then I put on my dressing-gown and
slippers, and went down-stairs with him.  Mr. Bailey was in the
billiard-room.  We--we all talked together for perhaps ten minutes.
Then it was decided that--that they should both go away--"

"Can't you be more explicit?" Mr. Jamieson asked.  "WHY did they go
away?"

"I am only telling you what happened, not why it happened," she said
evenly.  "Halsey went for the car, and instead of bringing it to the
house and rousing people, he went by the lower road from the stable.
Mr. Bailey was to meet him at the foot of the lawn.  Mr. Bailey left--"

"Which way?" Mr. Jamieson asked sharply.

"By the main entrance.  He left--it was a quarter to three.  I know
exactly."

"The clock in the hall is stopped, Miss Innes," said Jamieson. Nothing
seemed to escape him.

"He looked at his watch," she replied, and I could see Mr. Jamieson's
snap, as if he had made a discovery.  As for myself, during the whole
recital I had been plunged into the deepest amazement.

"Will you pardon me for a personal question?"  The detective was a
youngish man, and I thought he was somewhat embarrassed.  "What are
your--your relations with Mr. Bailey?"

Gertrude hesitated.  Then she came over and put her hand lovingly in
mine.

"I am engaged to marry him," she said simply.

I had grown so accustomed to surprises that I could only gasp again,
and as for Gertrude, the hand that lay in mine was burning with fever.

"And--after that," Mr. Jamieson went on, "you went directly to bed?"

Gertrude hesitated.

"No," she said finally.  "I--I am not nervous, and after I had
extinguished the light, I remembered something I had left in the
billiard-room, and I felt my way back there through the darkness."

"Will you tell me what it was you had forgotten?"

"I can not tell you," she said slowly.  "I--I did not leave the
billiard-room at once--"

"Why?"  The detective's tone was imperative.  "This is very important,
Miss Innes."

"I was crying," Gertrude said in a low tone.  "When the French clock in
the drawing-room struck three, I got up, and then--I heard a step on
the east porch, just outside the card-room.  Some one with a key was
working with the latch, and I thought, of course, of Halsey.  When we
took the house he called that his entrance, and he had carried a key
for it ever since.  The door opened and I was about to ask what he had
forgotten, when there was a flash and a report.  Some heavy body
dropped, and, half crazed with terror and shock, I ran through the
drawing-room and got up-stairs--I scarcely remember how."

She dropped into a chair, and I thought Mr. Jamieson must have
finished.  But he was not through.

"You certainly clear your brother and Mr. Bailey admirably," he said.
"The testimony is invaluable, especially in view of the fact that your
brother and Mr. Armstrong had, I believe, quarreled rather seriously
some time ago."

"Nonsense," I broke in.  "Things are bad enough, Mr. Jamieson, without
inventing bad feeling where it doesn't exist.  Gertrude, I don't think
Halsey knew the--the murdered man, did he?"

But Mr. Jamieson was sure of his ground.

"The quarrel, I believe," he persisted, "was about Mr. Armstrong's
conduct to you, Miss Gertrude.  He had been paying you unwelcome
attentions."

And I had never seen the man!

When she nodded a "yes" I saw the tremendous possibilities involved.
If this detective could prove that Gertrude feared and disliked the
murdered man, and that Mr. Armstrong had been annoying and possibly
pursuing her with hateful attentions, all that, added to Gertrude's
confession of her presence in the billiard-room at the time of the
crime, looked strange, to say the least.  The prominence of the family
assured a strenuous effort to find the murderer, and if we had nothing
worse to look forward to, we were sure of a distasteful publicity.

Mr. Jamieson shut his note-book with a snap, and thanked us.

"I have an idea," he said, apropos of nothing at all, "that at any rate
the ghost is laid here.  Whatever the rappings have been--and the
colored man says they began when the family went west three months
ago--they are likely to stop now."

Which shows how much he knew about it.  The ghost was not laid: with
the murder of Arnold Armstrong he, or it, only seemed to take on fresh
vigor.

Mr. Jamieson left then, and when Gertrude had gone up-stairs, as she
did at once, I sat and thought over what I had just heard. Her
engagement, once so engrossing a matter, paled now beside the
significance of her story.  If Halsey and Jack Bailey had left before
the crime, how came Halsey's revolver in the tulip bed? What was the
mysterious cause of their sudden flight?  What had Gertrude left in the
billiard-room?  What was the significance of the cuff-link, and where
was it?



CHAPTER VI

IN THE EAST CORRIDOR

When the detective left he enjoined absolute secrecy on everybody in
the household.  The Greenwood Club promised the same thing, and as
there are no Sunday afternoon papers, the murder was not publicly known
until Monday.  The coroner himself notified the Armstrong family
lawyer, and early in the afternoon he came out. I had not seen Mr.
Jamieson since morning, but I knew he had been interrogating the
servants.  Gertrude was locked in her room with a headache, and I had
luncheon alone.

Mr. Harton, the lawyer, was a little, thin man, and he looked as if he
did not relish his business that day.

"This is very unfortunate, Miss Innes," he said, after we had shaken
hands.  "Most unfortunate--and mysterious.  With the father and mother
in the west, I find everything devolves on me; and, as you can
understand, it is an unpleasant duty."

"No doubt," I said absently.  "Mr. Harton, I am going to ask you some
questions, and I hope you will answer them.  I feel that I am entitled
to some knowledge, because I and my family are just now in a most
ambiguous position."

I don't know whether he understood me or not: he took of his glasses
and wiped them.

"I shall be very happy," he said with old-fashioned courtesy.

"Thank you.  Mr. Harton, did Mr. Arnold Armstrong know that Sunnyside
had been rented?"

"I think--yes, he did.  In fact, I myself told him about it."

"And he knew who the tenants were?"

"Yes."

"He had not been living with the family for some years, I believe?"

"No.  Unfortunately, there had been trouble between Arnold and his
father.  For two years he had lived in town."

"Then it would be unlikely that he came here last night to get
possession of anything belonging to him?"

"I should think it hardly possible," he admitted.

"To be perfectly frank, Miss Innes, I can not think of any reason
whatever for his coming here as he did.  He had been staying at the
club-house across the valley for the last week, Jarvis tells me, but
that only explains how he came here, not why.  It is a most unfortunate
family."

He shook his head despondently, and I felt that this dried-up little
man was the repository of much that he had not told me.  I gave up
trying to elicit any information from him, and we went together to view
the body before it was taken to the city.  It had been lifted on to the
billiard-table and a sheet thrown over it; otherwise nothing had been
touched.  A soft hat lay beside it, and the collar of the dinner-coat
was still turned up.  The handsome, dissipated face of Arnold
Armstrong, purged of its ugly lines, was now only pathetic.  As we went
in Mrs. Watson appeared at the card-room door.

"Come in, Mrs. Watson," the lawyer said.  But she shook her head and
withdrew: she was the only one in the house who seemed to regret the
dead man, and even she seemed rather shocked than sorry.

I went to the door at the foot of the circular staircase and opened it.
If I could only have seen Halsey coming at his usual hare-brained clip
up the drive, if I could have heard the throb of the motor, I would
have felt that my troubles were over.

But there was nothing to be seen.  The countryside lay sunny and quiet
in its peaceful Sunday afternoon calm, and far down the drive Mr.
Jamieson was walking slowly, stooping now and then, as if to examine
the road.  When I went back, Mr. Harton was furtively wiping his eyes.

"The prodigal has come home, Miss Innes," he said.  "How often the sins
of the fathers are visited on the children!"  Which left me pondering.

Before Mr. Harton left, he told me something of the Armstrong family.
Paul Armstrong, the father, had been married twice. Arnold was a son by
the first marriage.  The second Mrs. Armstrong had been a widow, with a
child, a little girl.  This child, now perhaps twenty, was Louise
Armstrong, having taken her stepfather's name, and was at present in
California with the family.

"They will probably return at once," he concluded "sad part of my
errand here to-day is to see if you will relinquish your lease here in
their favor."

"We would better wait and see if they wish to come," I said. "It seems
unlikely, and my town house is being remodeled."  At that he let the
matter drop, but it came up unpleasantly enough, later.

At six o'clock the body was taken away, and at seven-thirty, after an
early dinner, Mr. Harton went.  Gertrude had not come down, and there
was no news of Halsey.  Mr. Jamieson had taken a lodging in the
village, and I had not seen him since mid-afternoon.  It was about nine
o'clock, I think, when the bell rang and he was ushered into the
living-room.

"Sit down," I said grimly.  "Have you found a clue that will
incriminate me, Mr. Jamieson?"

He had the grace to look uncomfortable.  "No," he said.  "If you had
killed Mr. Armstrong, you would have left no clues.  You would have had
too much intelligence."

After that we got along better.  He was fishing in his pocket, and
after a minute he brought out two scraps of paper.  "I have been to the
club-house," he said, "and among Mr. Armstrong's effects, I found
these.  One is curious; the other is puzzling."

The first was a sheet of club note-paper, on which was written, over
and over, the name "Halsey B. Innes."  It was Halsey's flowing
signature to a dot, but it lacked Halsey's ease.  The ones toward the
bottom of the sheet were much better than the top ones.  Mr. Jamieson
smiled at my face.

"His old tricks," he said.  "That one is merely curious; this one, as I
said before, is puzzling."

The second scrap, folded and refolded into a compass so tiny that the
writing had been partly obliterated, was part of a letter--the lower
half of a sheet, not typed, but written in a cramped hand.


"----by altering the plans for----rooms, may be possible.  The best
way, in my opinion, would be to----the plan for----in one of
the----rooms----chimney."


That was all.

"Well?" I said, looking up.  "There is nothing in that, is there? A man
ought to be able to change the plan of his house without becoming an
object of suspicion."

"There is little in the paper itself," he admitted; "but why should
Arnold Armstrong carry that around, unless it meant something?  He
never built a house, you may be sure of that.  If it is this house, it
may mean anything, from a secret room--"

"To an extra bath-room," I said scornfully.  "Haven't you a
thumb-print, too?"

"I have," he said with a smile, "and the print of a foot in a tulip
bed, and a number of other things.  The oddest part is, Miss Innes,
that the thumb-mark is probably yours and the footprint certainly."

His audacity was the only thing that saved me: his amused smile put me
on my mettle, and I ripped out a perfectly good scallop before I
answered.

"Why did I step into the tulip bed?" I asked with interest.

"You picked up something," he said good-humoredly, "which you are going
to tell me about later."

"Am I, indeed?" I was politely curious.  "With this remarkable insight
of yours, I wish you would tell me where I shall find my
four-thousand-dollar motor car."

"I was just coming to that," he said.  "You will find it about thirty
miles away, at Andrews Station, in a blacksmith shop, where it is being
repaired."

I laid down my knitting then and looked at him.

"And Halsey?" I managed to say.

"We are going to exchange information," he said "I am going to tell you
that, when you tell me what you picked up in the tulip bed."

We looked steadily at each other: it was not an unfriendly stare; we
were only measuring weapons.  Then he smiled a little and got up.

"With your permission," he said, "I am going to examine the card-room
and the staircase again.  You might think over my offer in the
meantime."

He went on through the drawing-room, and I listened to his footsteps
growing gradually fainter.  I dropped my pretense at knitting and,
leaning back, I thought over the last forty-eight hours.  Here was I,
Rachel Innes, spinster, a granddaughter of old John Innes of
Revolutionary days, a D. A. R., a Colonial Dame, mixed up with a vulgar
and revolting crime, and even attempting to hoodwink the law!
Certainly I had left the straight and narrow way.

I was roused by hearing Mr. Jamieson coming rapidly back through the
drawing-room.  He stopped at the door.

"Miss Innes," he said quickly, "will you come with me and light the
east corridor?  I have fastened somebody in the small room at the head
of the card-room stairs."

I jumped! up at once.

"You mean--the murderer?" I gasped.

"Possibly," he said quietly, as we hurried together up the stairs.
"Some one was lurking on the staircase when I went back. I spoke;
instead of an answer, whoever it was turned and ran up. I followed--it
was dark--but as I turned the corner at the top a figure darted through
this door and closed it.  The bolt was on my side, and I pushed it
forward.  It is a closet, I think."  We were in the upper hall now.
"If you will show me the electric switch, Miss Innes, you would better
wait in your own room."

Trembling as I was, I was determined to see that door opened.  I hardly
knew what I feared, but so many terrible and inexplicable things had
happened that suspense was worse than certainty.

"I am perfectly cool," I said, "and I am going to remain here."

The lights flashed up along that end of the corridor, throwing the
doors into relief.  At the intersection of the small hallway with the
larger, the circular staircase wound its way up, as if it had been an
afterthought of the architect.  And just around the corner, in the
small corridor, was the door Mr. Jamieson had indicated.  I was still
unfamiliar with the house, and I did not remember the door.  My heart
was thumping wildly in my ears, but I nodded to him to go ahead.  I was
perhaps eight or ten feet away--and then he threw the bolt back.

"Come out," he said quietly.  There was no response.  "Come--out," he
repeated.  Then--I think he had a revolver, but I am not sure--he
stepped aside and threw the door open.

From where I stood I could not see beyond the door, but I saw Mr.
Jamieson's face change and heard him mutter something, then he bolted
down the stairs, three at a time.  When my knees had stopped shaking, I
moved forward, slowly, nervously, until I had a partial view of what
was beyond the door.  It seemed at first to be a closet, empty.  Then I
went close and examined it, to stop with a shudder.  Where the floor
should have been was black void and darkness, from which came the
indescribable, damp smell of the cellars.

Mr. Jamieson had locked somebody in the clothes chute.  As I leaned
over I fancied I heard a groan--or was it the wind?



CHAPTER VII

A SPRAINED ANKLE

I was panic-stricken.  As I ran along the corridor I was confident that
the mysterious intruder and probable murderer had been found, and that
he lay dead or dying at the foot of the chute.  I got down the
staircase somehow, and through the kitchen to the basement stairs.  Mr.
Jamieson had been before me, and the door stood open.  Liddy was
standing in the middle of the kitchen, holding a frying-pan by the
handle as a weapon.

"Don't go down there," she yelled, when she saw me moving toward the
basement stairs.  "Don't you do it, Miss Rachel.  That Jamieson's down
there now.  There's only trouble comes of hunting ghosts; they lead you
into bottomless pits and things like that. Oh, Miss Rachel, don't--" as
I tried to get past her.

She was interrupted by Mr. Jamieson's reappearance.  He ran up the
stairs two at a time, and his face was flushed and furious.

"The whole place is locked," he said angrily.  "Where's the laundry key
kept?"

"It's kept in the door," Liddy snapped.  "That whole end of the cellar
is kept locked, so nobody can get at the clothes, and then the key's
left in the door? so that unless a thief was as blind as--as some
detectives, he could walk right in."

"Liddy," I said sharply, "come down with us and turn on all the lights."

She offered her resignation, as usual, on the spot, but I took her by
the arm, and she came along finally.  She switched on all the lights
and pointed to a door just ahead.

"That's the door," she said sulkily.  "The key's in it."

But the key was not in it.  Mr. Jamieson shook it, but it was a heavy
door, well locked.  And then he stooped and began punching around the
keyhole with the end of a lead-pencil.  When he stood up his face was
exultant.

"It's locked on the inside," he said in a low tone.  "There is somebody
in there."

"Lord have mercy!" gasped Liddy, and turned to run.

"Liddy," I called, "go through the house at once and see who is
missing, or if any one is.  We'll have to clear this thing at once.
Mr. Jamieson, if you will watch here I will go to the lodge and find
Warner.  Thomas would be of no use.  Together you may be able to force
the door."

"A good idea," he assented.  "But--there are windows, of course, and
there is nothing to prevent whoever is in there from getting out that
way."

"Then lock the door at the top of the basement stairs," I suggested,
"and patrol the house from the outside."

We agreed to this, and I had a feeling that the mystery of Sunnyside
was about to be solved.  I ran down the steps and along the drive.
Just at the corner I ran full tilt into somebody who seemed to be as
much alarmed as I was.  It was not until I had recoiled a step or two
that I recognized Gertrude, and she me.

"Good gracious, Aunt Ray," she exclaimed, "what is the matter?"

"There's somebody locked in the laundry," I panted.  "That
is--unless--you didn't see any one crossing the lawn or skulking around
the house, did you?"

"I think we have mystery on the brain," Gertrude said wearily. "No, I
haven't seen any one, except old Thomas, who looked for all the world
as if he had been ransacking the pantry.  What have you locked in the
laundry?"

"I can't wait to explain," I replied.  "I must get Warner from the
lodge.  If you came out for air, you'd better put on your overshoes."
And then I noticed that Gertrude was limping--not much, but
sufficiently to make her progress very slow, and seemingly painful.

"You have hurt yourself," I said sharply.

"I fell over the carriage block," she explained.  "I thought perhaps I
might see Halsey coming home.  He--he ought to be here."

I hurried on down the drive.  The lodge was some distance from the
house, in a grove of trees where the drive met the county road.  There
were two white stone pillars to mark the entrance, but the iron gates,
once closed and tended by the lodge-keeper, now stood permanently open.
The day of the motor-car had come; no one had time for closed gates and
lodge-keepers.  The lodge at Sunnyside was merely a sort of
supplementary servants' quarters: it was as convenient in its
appointments as the big house and infinitely more cozy.

As I went down the drive, my thoughts were busy.  Who would it be that
Mr. Jamieson had trapped in the cellar?  Would we find a body or some
one badly injured?  Scarcely either.  Whoever had fallen had been able
to lock the laundry door on the inside.  If the fugitive had come from
outside the house, how did he get in? If it was some member of the
household, who could it have been? And then--a feeling of horror almost
overwhelmed me.  Gertrude! Gertrude and her injured ankle!  Gertrude
found limping slowly up the drive when I had thought she was in bed!

I tried to put the thought away, but it would not go.  If Gertrude had
been on the circular staircase that night, why had she fled from Mr.
Jamieson?  The idea, puzzling as it was, seemed borne out by this
circumstance.  Whoever had taken refuge at the head of the stairs could
scarcely have been familiar with the house, or with the location of the
chute.  The mystery seemed to deepen constantly.  What possible
connection could there be between Halsey and Gertrude, and the murder
of Arnold Armstrong? And yet, every way I turned I seemed to find
something that pointed to such a connection.

At the foot of the drive the road described a long, sloping,
horseshoe-shaped curve around the lodge.  There were lights there,
streaming cheerfully out on to the trees, and from an upper room came
wavering shadows, as if some one with a lamp was moving around.  I had
come almost silently in my evening slippers, and I had my second
collision of the evening on the road just above the house.  I ran full
into a man in a long coat, who was standing in the shadow beside the
drive, with his back to me, watching the lighted windows.

"What the hell!" he ejaculated furiously, and turned around. When he
saw me, however, he did not wait for any retort on my part.  He faded
away--this is not slang; he did--he absolutely disappeared in the dusk
without my getting more than a glimpse of his face.  I had a vague
impression of unfamiliar features and of a sort of cap with a visor.
Then he was gone.

I went to the lodge and rapped.  It required two or three poundings to
bring Thomas to the door, and he opened it only an inch or so.

"Where is Warner?" I asked.

"I--I think he's in bed, ma'm."

"Get him up," I said, "and for goodness' sake open the door, Thomas.
I'll wait for Warner."

"It's kind o' close in here, ma'm," he said, obeying gingerly, and
disclosing a cool and comfortable looking interior.  "Perhaps you'd
keer to set on the porch an' rest yo'self."

It was so evident that Thomas did not want me inside that I went in.

"Tell Warner he is needed in a hurry," I repeated, and turned into the
little sitting-room.  I could hear Thomas going up the stairs, could
hear him rouse Warner, and the steps of the chauffeur as he hurriedly
dressed.  But my attention was busy with the room below.

On the center-table, open, was a sealskin traveling bag.  It was filled
with gold-topped bottles and brushes, and it breathed opulence, luxury,
femininity from every inch of surface.  How did it get there?  I was
still asking myself the question when Warner came running down the
stairs and into the room.  He was completely but somewhat incongruously
dressed, and his open, boyish face looked abashed.  He was a country
boy, absolutely frank and reliable, of fair education and
intelligence--one of the small army of American youths who turn a
natural aptitude for mechanics into the special field of the
automobile, and earn good salaries in a congenial occupation.

"What is it, Miss Innes?" he asked anxiously.

"There is some one locked in the laundry," I replied.  "Mr. Jamieson
wants you to help him break the lock.  Warner, whose bag is this?"

He was in the doorway by this time, and he pretended not to hear.

"Warner," I called, "come back here.  Whose bag is this?"

He stopped then, but he did not turn around.

"It's--it belongs to Thomas," he said, and fled up the drive.

To Thomas!  A London bag with mirrors and cosmetic jars of which Thomas
could not even have guessed the use!  However, I put the bag in the
back of my mind, which was fast becoming stored with anomalous and
apparently irreconcilable facts, and followed Warner to the house.

Liddy had come back to the kitchen: the door to the basement stairs was
double-barred, and had a table pushed against it; and beside her on the
table was most of the kitchen paraphernalia.

"Did you see if there was any one missing in the house?" I asked,
ignoring the array of sauce-pans rolling-pins, and the poker of the
range.

"Rosie is missing," Liddy said with unction.  She had objected to
Rosie, the parlor maid, from the start.  "Mrs. Watson went into her
room, and found she had gone without her hat.  People that trust
themselves a dozen miles from the city, in strange houses, with
servants they don't know, needn't be surprised if they wake up some
morning and find their throats cut."

After which carefully veiled sarcasm Liddy relapsed into gloom. Warner
came in then with a handful of small tools, and Mr. Jamieson went with
him to the basement.  Oddly enough, I was not alarmed.  With all my
heart I wished for Halsey, but I was not frightened.  At the door he
was to force, Warner put down his tools and looked at it.  Then he
turned the handle.  Without the slightest difficulty the door opened,
revealing the blackness of the drying-room beyond!

Mr. Jamieson gave an exclamation of disgust.

"Gone!" he said.  "Confound such careless work!  I might have known."

It was true enough.  We got the lights on finally and looked all
through the three rooms that constituted this wing of the basement.
Everything was quiet and empty.  An explanation of how the fugitive had
escaped injury was found in a heaped-up basket of clothes under the
chute.  The basket had been overturned, but that was all.  Mr. Jamieson
examined the windows: one was unlocked, and offered an easy escape.
The window or the door? Which way had the fugitive escaped?  The door
seemed most probable, and I hoped it had been so.  I could not have
borne, just then, to think that it was my poor Gertrude we had been
hounding through the darkness, and yet--I had met Gertrude not far from
that very window.

I went up-stairs at last, tired and depressed.  Mrs. Watson and Liddy
were making tea in the kitchen.  In certain walks of life the tea-pot
is the refuge in times of stress, trouble or sickness: they give tea to
the dying and they put it in the baby's nursing bottle.  Mrs. Watson
was fixing a tray to be sent in to me, and when I asked her about Rosie
she confirmed her absence.

"She's not here," she said; "but I would not think much of that, Miss
Innes.  Rosie is a pretty young girl, and perhaps she has a sweetheart.
It will be a good thing if she has.  The maids stay much better when
they have something like that to hold them here."

Gertrude had gone back to her room, and while I was drinking my cup of
hot tea, Mr. Jamieson came in.

"We might take up the conversation where we left off an hour and a half
ago," he said.  "But before we go on, I want to say this: The person
who escaped from the laundry was a woman with a foot of moderate size
and well arched.  She wore nothing but a stocking on her right foot,
and, in spite of the unlocked door, she escaped by the window."

And again I thought of Gertrude's sprained ankle.  Was it the right or
the left?



CHAPTER VIII

THE OTHER HALF OF THE LINE

"Miss Innes," the detective began, "what is your opinion of the figure
you saw on the east veranda the night you and your maid were in the
house alone?"

"It was a woman," I said positively.

"And yet your maid affirms with equal positiveness that it was a man."

"Nonsense," I broke in.  "Liddy had her eyes shut--she always shuts
them when she's frightened."

"And you never thought then that the intruder who came later that night
might be a woman--the woman, in fact, whom you saw on the veranda?"

"I had reasons for thinking it was a man," I said remembering the pearl
cuff-link.

"Now we are getting down to business.  WHAT were your reasons for
thinking that?"

I hesitated.

"If you have any reason for believing that your midnight guest was Mr.
Armstrong, other than his visit here the next night, you ought to tell
me, Miss Innes.  We can take nothing for granted. If, for instance, the
intruder who dropped the bar and scratched the staircase--you see, I
know about that--if this visitor was a woman, why should not the same
woman have come back the following night, met Mr. Armstrong on the
circular staircase, and in alarm shot him?"

"It was a man," I reiterated.  And then, because I could think of no
other reason for my statement, I told him about the pearl cuff-link.
He was intensely interested.

"Will you give me the link," he said, when I finished, "or, at least,
let me see it?  I consider it a most important clue."

"Won't the description do?"

"Not as well as the original."

"Well, I'm very sorry," I said, as calmly as I could, "I--the thing is
lost.  It--it must have fallen out of a box on my dressing-table."

Whatever he thought of my explanation, and I knew he doubted it, he
made no sign.  He asked me to describe the link accurately, and I did
so, while he glanced at a list he took from his pocket.

"One set monogram cuff-links," he read, "one set plain pearl links, one
set cuff-links, woman's head set with diamonds and emeralds.  There is
no mention of such a link as you describe, and yet, if your theory is
right, Mr. Armstrong must have taken back in his cuffs one complete
cuff-link, and a half, perhaps, of the other."

The idea was new to me.  If it had not been the murdered man who had
entered the house that night, who had it been?

"There are a number of strange things connected with this case," the
detective went on.  "Miss Gertrude Innes testified that she heard some
one fumbling with the lock, that the door opened, and that almost
immediately the shot was fired.  Now, Miss Innes, here is the strange
part of that.  Mr. Armstrong had no key with him.  There was no key in
the lock, or on the floor.  In other words, the evidence points
absolutely to this:  Mr. Armstrong was admitted to the house from
within."

"It is impossible," I broke in.  "Mr. Jamieson, do you know what your
words imply?  Do you know that you are practically accusing Gertrude
Innes of admitting that man?"

"Not quite that," he said, with his friendly smile.  "In fact, Miss
Innes, I am quite certain she did not.  But as long as I learn only
parts of the truth, from both you and her, what can I do?  I know you
picked up something in the flower bed: you refuse to tell me what it
was.  I know Miss Gertrude went back to the billiard-room to get
something, she refuses to say what.  You suspect what happened to the
cuff-link, but you won't tell me. So far, all I am sure of is this:  I
do not believe Arnold Armstrong was the midnight visitor who so alarmed
you by dropping--shall we say, a golf-stick?  And I believe that when
he did come he was admitted by some one in the house.  Who knows--it
may have been--Liddy!"

I stirred my tea angrily.

"I have always heard," I said dryly, "that undertakers' assistants are
jovial young men.  A man's sense of humor seems to be in inverse
proportion to the gravity of his profession."

"A man's sense of humor is a barbarous and a cruel thing, Miss Innes,"
he admitted.  "It is to the feminine as the hug of a bear is to the
scratch of--well;--anything with claws.  Is that you, Thomas?  Come in."

Thomas Johnson stood in the doorway.  He looked alarmed and
apprehensive, and suddenly I remembered the sealskin dressing-bag in
the lodge.  Thomas came just inside the door and stood with his head
drooping, his eyes, under their shaggy gray brows, fixed on Mr.
Jamieson.

"Thomas," said the detective, not unkindly, "I sent for you to tell us
what you told Sam Bohannon at the club, the day before Mr. Arnold was
found here, dead.  Let me see.  You came here Friday night to see Miss
Innes, didn't you?  And came to work here Saturday morning?"

For some unexplained reason Thomas looked relieved.

"Yas, sah," he said.  "You see it were like this:  When Mistah
Armstrong and the fam'ly went away, Mis' Watson an' me, we was lef' in
charge till the place was rented.  Mis' Watson, she've bin here a good
while, an' she warn' skeery.  So she slep' in the house.  I'd bin
havin' tokens--I tol' Mis' Innes some of 'em--an' I slep' in the lodge.
Then one day Mis' Watson, she came to me an' she sez, sez she, 'Thomas,
you'll hev to sleep up in the big house.  I'm too nervous to do it any
more.'  But I jes' reckon to myself that ef it's too skeery fer her,
it's too skeery fer me.  We had it, then, sho' nuff, and it ended up
with Mis' Watson stayin' in the lodge nights an' me lookin' fer work at
de club."

"Did Mrs. Watson say that anything had happened to alarm her?"

"No, sah.  She was jes' natchally skeered.  Well, that was all, far's I
know, until the night I come over to see Mis' Innes.  I come across the
valley, along the path from the club-house, and I goes home that way.
Down in the creek bottom I almost run into a man.  He wuz standin' with
his back to me, an' he was workin' with one of these yere electric
light things that fit in yer pocket.  He was havin' trouble--one minute
it'd flash out, an' the nex' it'd be gone.  I hed a view of 'is white
dress shirt an' tie, as I passed.  I didn't see his face.  But I know
it warn't Mr. Arnold.  It was a taller man than Mr. Arnold.  Beside
that, Mr. Arnold was playin' cards when I got to the club-house, same's
he'd been doin' all day."

"And the next morning you came back along the path," pursued Mr.
Jamieson relentlessly.

"The nex' mornin' I come back along the path an' down where I dun see
the man night befoh, I picked up this here."  The old man held out a
tiny object and Mr. Jamieson took it.  Then he held it on his extended
palm for me to see.  It was the other half of the pearl cuff-link!

But Mr. Jamieson was not quite through questioning him.

"And so you showed it to Sam, at the club, and asked him if he knew any
one who owned such a link, and Sam said--what?"

"Wal, Sam, he 'lowed he'd seen such a pair of cuff-buttons in a shirt
belongin' to Mr. Bailey--Mr. Jack Bailey, sah."

"I'll keep this link, Thomas, for a while," the detective said. "That's
all I wanted to know.  Good night."

As Thomas shuffled out, Mr. Jamieson watched me sharply.

"You see, Miss Innes," he said, "Mr. Bailey insists on mixing himself
with this thing.  If Mr. Bailey came here that Friday night expecting
to meet Arnold Armstrong, and missed him--if, as I say, he had done
this, might he not, seeing him enter the following night, have struck
him down, as he had intended before?"

"But the motive?" I gasped.

"There could be motive proved, I think.  Arnold Armstrong and John
Bailey have been enemies since the latter, as cashier of the Traders'
Bank, brought Arnold almost into the clutches of the law.  Also, you
forget that both men have been paying attention to Miss Gertrude.
Bailey's flight looks bad, too."

"And you think Halsey helped him to escape?"

"Undoubtedly.  Why, what could it be but flight?  Miss Innes, let me
reconstruct that evening, as I see it.  Bailey and Armstrong had
quarreled at the club.  I learned this to-day.  Your nephew brought
Bailey over.  Prompted by jealous, insane fury, Armstrong followed,
coming across by the path.  He entered the billiard-room wing--perhaps
rapping, and being admitted by your nephew. Just inside he was shot, by
some one on the circular staircase. The shot fired, your nephew and
Bailey left the house at once, going toward the automobile house.  They
left by the lower road, which prevented them being heard, and when you
and Miss Gertrude got down-stairs everything was quiet."

"But--Gertrude's story," I stammered.

"Miss Gertrude only brought forward her explanation the following
morning.  I do not believe it, Miss Innes.  It is the story of a loving
and ingenious woman."

"And--this thing to-night?"

"May upset my whole view of the case.  We must give the benefit of
every doubt, after all.  We may, for instance, come back to the figure
on the porch: if it was a woman you saw that night through the window,
we might start with other premises.  Or Mr. Innes' explanation may turn
us in a new direction.  It is possible that he shot Arnold Armstrong as
a burglar and then fled, frightened at what he had done.  In any case,
however, I feel confident that the body was here when he left.  Mr.
Armstrong left the club ostensibly for a moonlight saunter, about half
after eleven o'clock.  It was three when the shot was fired."

I leaned back bewildered.  It seemed to me that the evening had been
full of significant happenings, had I only held the key. Had Gertrude
been the fugitive in the clothes chute?  Who was the man on the drive
near the lodge, and whose gold-mounted dressing-bag had I seen in the
lodge sitting-room?

It was late when Mr. Jamieson finally got up to go.  I went with him to
the door, and together we stood looking out over the valley.  Below lay
the village of Casanova, with its Old World houses, its blossoming
trees and its peace.  Above on the hill across the valley were the
lights of the Greenwood Club.  It was even possible to see the curving
row of parallel lights that marked the carriage road.  Rumors that I
had heard about the club came back--of drinking, of high play, and
once, a year ago, of a suicide under those very lights.

Mr. Jamieson left, taking a short cut to the village, and I still stood
there.  It must have been after eleven, and the monotonous tick of the
big clock on the stairs behind me was the only sound.

Then I was conscious that some one was running up the drive.  In a
minute a woman darted into the area of light made by the open door, and
caught me by the arm.  It was Rosie--Rosie in a state of collapse from
terror, and, not the least important, clutching one of my Coalport
plates and a silver spoon.

She stood staring into the darkness behind, still holding the plate.  I
got her into the house and secured the plate; then I stood and looked
down at her where she crouched tremblingly against the doorway.

"Well," I asked, "didn't your young man enjoy his meal?"

She couldn't speak.  She looked at the spoon she still held--I wasn't
so anxious about it: thank Heaven, it wouldn't chip--and then she
stared at me.

"I appreciate your desire to have everything nice for him," I went on,
"but the next time, you might take the Limoges china It's more easily
duplicated and less expensive."

"I haven't a young man--not here."  She had got her breath now, as I
had guessed she would.  "I--I have been chased by a thief, Miss Innes."

"Did he chase you out of the house and back again?" I asked.

Then Rosie began to cry--not silently, but noisily, hysterically.

I stopped her by giving her a good shake.

"What in the world is the matter with you?" I snapped.  "Has the day of
good common sense gone by!  Sit up and tell me the whole thing."  Rosie
sat up then, and sniffled.

"I was coming up the drive--" she began.

"You must start with when you went DOWN the drive, with my dishes and
my silver," I interrupted, but, seeing more signs of hysteria, I gave
in.  "Very well.  You were coming up the drive--"

"I had a basket of--of silver and dishes on my arm and I was carrying
the plate, because--because I was afraid I'd break it. Part-way up the
road a man stepped out of the bushes, and held his arm like this,
spread out, so I couldn't get past.  He said--he said--'Not so fast,
young lady; I want you to let me see what's in that basket.'"

She got up in her excitement and took hold of my arm.

"It was like this, Miss Innes," she said, "and say you was the man.
When he said that, I screamed and ducked under his arm like this.  He
caught at the basket and I dropped it.  I ran as fast as I could, and
he came after as far as the trees.  Then he stopped.  Oh, Miss Innes,
it must have been the man that killed that Mr. Armstrong!"

"Don't be foolish," I said.  "Whoever killed Mr. Armstrong would put as
much space between himself and this house as he could.  Go up to bed
now; and mind, if I hear of this story being repeated to the other
maids, I shall deduct from your wages for every broken dish I find in
the drive."

I listened to Rosie as she went up-stairs, running past the shadowy
places and slamming her door.  Then I sat down and looked at the
Coalport plate and the silver spoon.  I had brought my own china and
silver, and, from all appearances, I would have little enough to take
back.  But though I might jeer at Rosie as much as I wished, the fact
remained that some one had been on the drive that night who had no
business there.  Although neither had Rosie, for that matter.

I could fancy Liddy's face when she missed the extra pieces of
china--she had opposed Rosie from the start.  If Liddy once finds a
prophecy fulfilled, especially an unpleasant one, she never allows me
to forget it.  It seemed to me that it was absurd to leave that china
dotted along the road for her to spy the next morning; so with a sudden
resolution, I opened the door again and stepped out into the darkness.
As the door closed behind me I half regretted my impulse; then I shut
my teeth and went on.

I have never been a nervous woman, as I said before.  Moreover, a
minute or two in the darkness enabled me to see things fairly well.
Beulah gave me rather a start by rubbing unexpectedly against my feet;
then we two, side by side, went down the drive.

There were no fragments of china, but where the grove began I picked up
a silver spoon.  So far Rosie's story was borne out:  I began to wonder
if it were not indiscreet, to say the least, this midnight prowling in
a neighborhood with such a deservedly bad reputation.  Then I saw
something gleaming, which proved to be the handle of a cup, and a step
or two farther on I found a V-shaped bit of a plate.  But the most
surprising thing of all was to find the basket sitting comfortably
beside the road, with the rest of the broken crockery piled neatly
within, and a handful of small silver, spoon, forks, and the like, on
top!  I could only stand and stare.  Then Rosie's story was true.  But
where had Rosie carried her basket?  And why had the thief, if he were
a thief, picked up the broken china out of the road and left it, with
his booty?

It was with my nearest approach to a nervous collapse that I heard the
familiar throbbing of an automobile engine.  As it came closer I
recognized the outline of the Dragon Fly, and knew that Halsey had come
back.

Strange enough it must have seemed to Halsey, too, to come across me in
the middle of the night, with the skirt of my gray silk gown over my
shoulders to keep off the dew, holding a red and green basket under one
arm and a black cat under the other.  What with relief and joy, I began
to cry, right there, and very nearly wiped my eyes on Beulah in the
excitement.



CHAPTER IX

JUST LIKE A GIRL

"Aunt Ray!" Halsey said from the gloom behind the lamps.  "What in the
world are you doing here?"

"Taking a walk," I said, trying to be composed.  I don't think the
answer struck either of us as being ridiculous at the time. "Oh,
Halsey, where have you been?"

"Let me take you up to the house."  He was in the road, and had Beulah
and the basket out of my arms in a moment.  I could see the car plainly
now, and Warner was at the wheel--Warner in an ulster and a pair of
slippers, over Heaven knows what.  Jack Bailey was not there.  I got
in, and we went slowly and painfully up to the house.

We did not talk.  What we had to say was too important to commence
there, and, besides, it took all kinds of coaxing from both men to get
the Dragon Fly up the last grade.  Only when we had closed the front
door and stood facing each other in the hall, did Halsey say anything.
He slipped his strong young arm around my shoulders and turned me so I
faced the light.

"Poor Aunt Ray!" he said gently.  And I nearly wept again.  "I--I must
see Gertrude, too; we will have a three-cornered talk."

And then Gertrude herself came down the stairs.  She had not been to
bed, evidently: she still wore the white negligee she had worn earlier
in the evening, and she limped somewhat.  During her slow progress down
the stairs I had time to notice one thing:  Mr. Jamieson had said the
woman who escaped from the cellar had worn no shoe on her right foot.
Gertrude's right ankle was the one she had sprained!

The meeting between brother and sister was tense, but without tears.
Halsey kissed her tenderly, and I noticed evidences of strain and
anxiety in both young faces.

"Is everything--right?" she asked.

"Right as can be," with forced cheerfulness.

I lighted the living-room and we went in there.  Only a half-hour
before I had sat with Mr. Jamieson in that very room, listening while
he overtly accused both Gertrude and Halsey of at least a knowledge of
the death of Arnold Armstrong.  Now Halsey was here to speak for
himself:  I should learn everything that had puzzled me.

"I saw it in the paper to-night for the first time," he was saying.
"It knocked me dumb.  When I think of this houseful of women, and a
thing like that occurring!"

Gertrude's face was still set and white.  "That isn't all, Halsey," she
said.  "You and--and Jack left almost at the time it happened.  The
detective here thinks that you--that we--know something about it."

"The devil he does!" Halsey's eyes were fairly starting from his head.
"I beg your pardon, Aunt Ray, but--the fellow's a lunatic."

"Tell me everything, won't you, Halsey?" I begged.  "Tell me where you
went that night, or rather morning, and why you went as you did.  This
has been a terrible forty-eight hours for all of us."

He stood staring at me, and I could see the horror of the situation
dawning in his face.

"I can't tell you where I went, Aunt Ray," he said, after a moment.
"As to why, you will learn that soon enough.  But Gertrude knows that
Jack and I left the house before this thing--this horrible
murder--occurred."

"Mr. Jamieson does not believe me," Gertrude said drearily. "Halsey, if
the worst comes, if they should arrest you, you must--tell."

"I shall tell nothing," he said with a new sternness in his voice.
"Aunt Ray, it was necessary for Jack and me to leave that night.  I can
not tell you why--just yet.  As to where we went, if I have to depend
on that as an alibi, I shall not tell.  The whole thing is an
absurdity, a trumped-up charge that can not possibly be serious."

"Has Mr. Bailey gone back to the city," I demanded, "or to the club?"

"Neither," defiantly; "at the present moment I do not know where he is."

"Halsey," I asked gravely, leaning forward, "have you the slightest
suspicion who killed Arnold Armstrong?  The police think he was
admitted from within, and that he was shot down from above, by someone
on the circular staircase."

"I know nothing of it," he maintained; but I fancied I caught a sudden
glance at Gertrude, a flash of something that died as it came.

As quietly, as calmly as I could, I went over the whole story, from the
night Liddy and I had been alone up to the strange experience of Rosie
and her pursuer.  The basket still stood on the table, a mute witness
to this last mystifying occurrence.

"There is something else," I said hesitatingly, at the last. "Halsey, I
have never told this even to Gertrude, but the morning after the crime,
I found, in a tulip bed, a revolver.  It--it was yours, Halsey."

For an appreciable moment Halsey stared at me.  Then he turned to
Gertrude.

"My revolver, Trude!" he exclaimed.  "Why, Jack took my revolver with
him, didn't he?"

"Oh, for Heaven's sake don't say that," I implored.  "The detective
thinks possibly Jack Bailey came back, and--and the thing happened
then."

"He didn't come back," Halsey said sternly.  "Gertrude, when you
brought down a revolver that night for Jack to take with him, what one
did you bring?  Mine?"

Gertrude was defiant now.

"No.  Yours was loaded, and I was afraid of what Jack might do.  I gave
him one I have had for a year or two.  It was empty."

Halsey threw up both hands despairingly.

"If that isn't like a girl!" he said.  "Why didn't you do what I asked
you to, Gertrude?  You send Bailey off with an empty gun, and throw
mine in a tulip bed, of all places on earth!  Mine was a thirty-eight
caliber.  The inquest will show, of course, that the bullet that killed
Armstrong was a thirty-eight.  Then where shall I be?"

"You forget," I broke in, "that I have the revolver, and that no one
knows about it."


But Gertrude had risen angrily.

"I can not stand it; it is always with me," she cried.  "Halsey, I did
not throw your revolver into the tulip bed. I--think--you--did
it--yourself!"

They stared at each other across the big library table, with young eyes
all at once hard, suspicious.  And then Gertrude held out both hands to
him appealingly.

"We must not," she said brokenly.  "Just now, with so much at stake,
it--is shameful.  I know you are as ignorant as I am. Make me believe
it, Halsey."

Halsey soothed her as best he could, and the breach seemed healed.  But
long after I went to bed he sat down-stairs in the living-room alone,
and I knew he was going over the case as he had learned it.  Some
things were clear to him that were dark to me.  He knew, and Gertrude,
too, why Jack Bailey and he had gone away that night, as they did.  He
knew where they had been for the last forty-eight hours, and why Jack
Bailey had not returned with him.  It seemed to me that without fuller
confidence from both the children--they are always children to me--I
should never be able to learn anything.

As I was finally getting ready for bed, Halsey came up-stairs and
knocked at my door.  When I had got into a negligee--I used to say
wrapper before Gertrude came back from school--I let him in. He stood
in the doorway a moment, and then he went into agonies of silent mirth.
I sat down on the side of the bed and waited in severe silence for him
to stop, but he only seemed to grow worse.

When he had recovered he took me by the elbow and pulled me in front of
the mirror.

"'How to be beautiful,'" he quoted.  "'Advice to maids and matrons,' by
Beatrice Fairfax!"  And then I saw myself.  I had neglected to remove
my wrinkle eradicators, and I presume my appearance was odd.  I believe
that it is a woman's duty to care for her looks, but it is much like
telling a necessary falsehood--one must not be found out.  By the time
I got them off Halsey was serious again, and I listened to his story.

"Aunt Ray," he began, extinguishing his cigarette on the back of my
ivory hair-brush, "I would give a lot to tell you the whole thing.
But--I can't, for a day or so, anyhow.  But one thing I might have told
you a long time ago.  If you had known it, you would not have suspected
me for a moment of--of having anything to do with the attack on Arnold
Armstrong.  Goodness knows what I might do to a fellow like that, if
there was enough provocation, and I had a gun in my hand--under
ordinary circumstances.  But--I care a great deal about Louise
Armstrong, Aunt Ray.  I hope to marry her some day.  Is it likely I
would kill her brother?"

"Her stepbrother," I corrected.  "No, of course, it isn't likely, or
possible.  Why didn't you tell me, Halsey?"

"Well, there were two reasons," he said slowly.

"One was that you had a girl already picked out for me--"

"Nonsense," I broke in, and felt myself growing red.  I had, indeed,
one of the--but no matter.

"And the second reason," he pursued, "was that the Armstrongs would
have none of me."

I sat bolt upright at that and gasped.

"The Armstrongs!" I repeated.  "With old Peter Armstrong driving a
stage across the mountains while your grandfather was war governor--"

"Well, of course, the war governor's dead, and out of the matrimonial
market," Halsey interrupted.  "And the present Innes admits himself he
isn't good enough for--for Louise."

"Exactly," I said despairingly, "and, of course, you are taken at your
own valuation.  The Inneses are not always so self-depreciatory."

"Not always, no," he said, looking at me with his boyish smile.
"Fortunately, Louise doesn't agree with her family.  She's willing to
take me, war governor or no, provided her mother consents.  She isn't
overly-fond of her stepfather, but she adores her mother.  And now,
can't you see where this thing puts me?  Down and out, with all of
them."

"But the whole thing is absurd," I argued.  "And besides, Gertrude's
sworn statement that you left before Arnold Armstrong came would clear
you at once."

Halsey got up and began to pace the room, and the air of cheerfulness
dropped like a mask.

"She can't swear it," he said finally.  "Gertrude's story was true as
far as it went, but she didn't tell everything.  Arnold Armstrong came
here at two-thirty--came into the billiard-room and left in five
minutes.  He came to bring--something."

"Halsey," I cried, "you MUST tell me the whole truth.  Every time I see
a way for you to escape you block it yourself with this wall of
mystery.  What did he bring?"

"A telegram--for Bailey," he said.  "It came by special messenger from
town, and was--most important.  Bailey had started for here, and the
messenger had gone back to the city.  The steward gave it to Arnold,
who had been drinking all day and couldn't sleep, and was going for a
stroll in the direction of Sunnyside."

"And he brought it?"

"Yes."

"What was in the telegram?"

"I can tell you--as soon as certain things are made public.  It is only
a matter of days now," gloomily.

"And Gertrude's story of a telephone message?"

"Poor Trude!" he half whispered.  "Poor loyal little girl! Aunt Ray,
there was no such message.  No doubt your detective already knows that
and discredits all Gertrude told him."

"And when she went back, it was to get--the telegram?"

"Probably," Halsey said slowly.  "When you get to thinking about it,
Aunt Ray, it looks bad for all three of us, doesn't it?  And yet--I
will take my oath none of us even inadvertently killed that poor devil."

I looked at the closed door into Gertrude's dressing-room, and lowered
my voice.

"The same horrible thought keeps recurring to me," I whispered.
"Halsey, Gertrude probably had your revolver: she must have examined
it, anyhow, that night.  After you--and Jack had gone, what if that
ruffian came back, and she--and she--"

I couldn't finish.  Halsey stood looking at me with shut lips.

"She might have heard him fumbling at the door he had no key, the
police say--and thinking it was you, or Jack, she admitted him.  When
she saw her mistake she ran up the stairs, a step or two, and turning,
like an animal at bay, she fired."

Halsey had his hand over my lips before I finished, and in that
position we stared each at the other, our stricken glances crossing.

"The revolver--my revolver--thrown into the tulip bed!" he muttered to
himself.  "Thrown perhaps from an upper window: you say it was buried
deep.  Her prostration ever since, her--Aunt Ray, you don't think it
was Gertrude who fell down the clothes chute?"

I could only nod my head in a hopeless affirmative.



CHAPTER X

THE TRADERS BANK

The morning after Halsey's return was Tuesday.  Arnold Armstrong had
been found dead at the foot of the circular staircase at three o'clock
on Sunday morning.  The funeral services were to be held on Tuesday,
and the interment of the body was to be deferred until the Armstrongs
arrived from California.  No one, I think, was very sorry that Arnold
Armstrong was dead, but the manner of his death aroused some sympathy
and an enormous amount of curiosity.  Mrs. Ogden Fitzhugh, a cousin,
took charge of the arrangements, and everything, I believe, was as
quiet as possible.  I gave Thomas Johnson and Mrs. Watson permission to
go into town to pay their last respects to the dead man, but for some
reason they did not care to go.

Halsey spent part of the day with Mr. Jamieson, but he said nothing of
what happened.  He looked grave and anxious, and he had a long
conversation with Gertrude late in the afternoon.

Tuesday evening found us quiet, with the quiet that precedes an
explosion.  Gertrude and Halsey were both gloomy and distraught, and as
Liddy had already discovered that some of the china was broken--it is
impossible to have any secrets from an old servant--I was not in a
pleasant humor myself.  Warner brought up the afternoon mail and the
evening papers at seven--I was curious to know what the papers said of
the murder.  We had turned away at least a dozen reporters.  But I read
over the head-line that ran half-way across the top of the Gazette
twice before I comprehended it.  Halsey had opened the Chronicle and
was staring at it fixedly.

"The Traders' Bank closes its doors!" was what I read, and then I put
down the paper and looked across the table.

"Did you know of this?" I asked Halsey.

"I expected it.  But not so soon," he replied.

"And you?" to Gertrude.

"Jack--told us--something," Gertrude said faintly.  "Oh, Halsey, what
can he do now?"

"Jack!" I said scornfully.  "Your Jack's flight is easy enough to
explain now.  And you helped him, both of you, to get away!  You get
that from your mother; it isn't an Innes trait. Do you know that every
dollar you have, both of you, is in that bank?"

Gertrude tried to speak, but Halsey stopped her.

"That isn't all, Gertrude," he said quietly; "Jack is--under arrest."

"Under arrest!" Gertrude screamed, and tore the paper out of his hand.
She glanced at the heading, then she crumpled the newspaper into a ball
and flung it to the floor.  While Halsey, looking stricken and white,
was trying to smooth it out and read it, Gertrude had dropped her head
on the table and was sobbing stormily.

I have the clipping somewhere, but just now I can remember only the
essentials.

On the afternoon before, Monday, while the Traders' Bank was in the
rush of closing hour, between two and three, Mr. Jacob Trautman,
President of the Pearl Brewing Company, came into the bank to lift a
loan.  As security for the loan he had deposited some three hundred
International Steamship Company 5's, in total value three hundred
thousand dollars.  Mr. Trautman went to the loan clerk and, after
certain formalities had been gone through, the loan clerk went to the
vault.  Mr. Trautman, who was a large and genial German, waited for a
time, whistling under his breath.  The loan clerk did not come back.
After an interval, Mr. Trautman saw the loan clerk emerge from the
vault and go to the assistant cashier: the two went hurriedly to the
vault.  A lapse of another ten minutes, and the assistant cashier came
out and approached Mr. Trautman.  He was noticeably white and
trembling.  Mr. Trautman was told that through an oversight the bonds
had been misplaced, and was asked to return the following morning, when
everything would be made all right.

Mr. Trautman, however, was a shrewd business man, and he did not like
the appearance of things.  He left the bank apparently satisfied, and
within thirty minutes he had called up three different members of the
Traders' Board of Directors.  At three-thirty there was a hastily
convened board meeting, with some stormy scenes, and late in the
afternoon a national bank examiner was in possession of the books.  The
bank had not opened for business on Tuesday.

At twelve-thirty o'clock the Saturday before, as soon as the business
of the day was closed, Mr. John Bailey, the cashier of the defunct
bank, had taken his hat and departed.  During the afternoon he had
called up Mr. Aronson, a member of the board, and said he was ill, and
might not be at the bank for a day or two.  As Bailey was highly
thought of, Mr. Aronson merely expressed a regret.  From that time
until Monday night, when Mr. Bailey had surrendered to the police,
little was known of his movements.  Some time after one on Saturday he
had entered the Western Union office at Cherry and White Streets and
had sent two telegrams.  He was at the Greenwood Country Club on
Saturday night, and appeared unlike himself.  It was reported that he
would be released under enormous bond, some time that day, Tuesday.

The article closed by saying that while the officers of the bank
refused to talk until the examiner had finished his work, it was known
that securities aggregating a million and a quarter were missing.  Then
there was a diatribe on the possibility of such an occurrence; on the
folly of a one-man bank, and of a Board of Directors that met only to
lunch together and to listen to a brief report from the cashier, and on
the poor policy of a government that arranges a three or four-day
examination twice a year.  The mystery, it insinuated, had not been
cleared by the arrest of the cashier.  Before now minor officials had
been used to cloak the misdeeds of men higher up.  Inseparable as the
words "speculation" and "peculation" have grown to be, John Bailey was
not known to be in the stock market.  His only words, after his
surrender, had been "Send for Mr. Armstrong at once." The telegraph
message which had finally reached the President of the Traders' Bank,
in an interior town in California, had been responded to by a telegram
from Doctor Walker, the young physician who was traveling with the
Armstrong family, saying that Paul Armstrong was very ill and unable to
travel.

That was how things stood that Tuesday evening.  The Traders' Bank had
suspended payment, and John Bailey was under arrest, charged with
wrecking it; Paul Armstrong lay very ill in California, and his only
son had been murdered two days before. I sat dazed and bewildered.  The
children's money was gone: that was bad enough, though I had plenty, if
they would let me share. But Gertrude's grief was beyond any power of
mine to comfort; the man she had chosen stood accused of a colossal
embezzlement--and even worse.  For in the instant that I sat there I
seemed to see the coils closing around John Bailey as the murderer of
Arnold Armstrong.

Gertrude lifted her head at last and stared across the table at Halsey.

"Why did he do it?" she wailed.  "Couldn't you stop him, Halsey? It was
suicidal to go back!"

Halsey was looking steadily through the windows of the breakfast-room,
but it was evident he saw nothing.

"It was the only thing he could do, Trude," he said at last. "Aunt Ray,
when I found Jack at the Greenwood Club last Saturday night, he was
frantic.  I can not talk until Jack tells me I may, but--he is
absolutely innocent of all this, believe me.  I thought, Trude and I
thought, we were helping him, but it was the wrong way.  He came back.
Isn't that the act of an innocent man?"

"Then why did he leave at all?" I asked, unconvinced.  "What innocent
man would run away from here at three o'clock in the morning?  Doesn't
it look rather as though he thought it impossible to escape?"

Gertrude rose angrily.  "You are not even just!" she flamed. "You don't
know anything about it, and you condemn him!"

"I know that we have all lost a great deal of money," I said.  "I shall
believe Mr. Bailey innocent the moment he is shown to be. You profess
to know the truth, but you can not tell me!  What am I to think?"

Halsey leaned over and patted my hand.

"You must take us on faith," he said.  "Jack Bailey hasn't a penny that
doesn't belong to him; the guilty man will be known in a day or so."

"I shall believe that when it is proved," I said grimly.  "In the
meantime, I take no one on faith.  The Inneses never do."

Gertrude, who had been standing aloof at a window, turned suddenly.
"But when the bonds are offered for sale, Halsey, won't the thief be
detected at once?"

Halsey turned with a superior smile.

"It wouldn't be done that way," he said.  "They would be taken out of
the vault by some one who had access to it, and used as collateral for
a loan in another bank.  It would be possible to realize eighty per
cent. of their face value."

"In cash?"

"In cash."

"But the man who did it--he would be known?"

"Yes.  I tell you both, as sure as I stand here, I believe that Paul
Armstrong looted his own bank.  I believe he has a million at least, as
the result, and that he will never come back.  I'm worse than a pauper
now.  I can't ask Louise to share nothing a year with me and when I
think of this disgrace for her, I'm crazy."

The most ordinary events of life seemed pregnant with possibilities
that day, and when Halsey was called to the telephone, I ceased all
pretense at eating.  When he came back from the telephone his face
showed that something had occurred. He waited, however, until Thomas
left the dining-room: then he told us.

"Paul Armstrong is dead," he announced gravely.  "He died this morning
in California.  Whatever he did, he is beyond the law now."

Gertrude turned pale.

"And the only man who could have cleared Jack can never do it!" she
said despairingly.

"Also," I replied coldly, "Mr. Armstrong is for ever beyond the power
of defending himself.  When your Jack comes to me, with some two
hundred thousand dollars in his hands, which is about what you have
lost, I shall believe him innocent."

Halsey threw his cigarette away and turned on me.

"There you go!" he exclaimed.  "If he was the thief, he could return
the money, of course.  If he is innocent, he probably hasn't a tenth of
that amount in the world.  In his hands! That's like a woman."

Gertrude, who had been pale and despairing during the early part of the
conversation, had flushed an indignant red.  She got up and drew
herself to her slender height, looking down at me with the scorn of the
young and positive.

"You are the only mother I ever had," she said tensely.  "I have given
you all I would have given my mother, had she lived--my love, my trust.
And now, when I need you most, you fail me.  I tell you, John Bailey is
a good man, an honest man.  If you say he is not, you--you--"

"Gertrude," Halsey broke in sharply.  She dropped beside the table and,
burying her face in her arms broke into a storm of tears.

"I love him--love him," she sobbed, in a surrender that was totally
unlike her.  "Oh, I never thought it would be like this. I can't bear
it. I can't."

Halsey and I stood helpless before the storm.  I would have tried to
comfort her, but she had put me away, and there was something aloof in
her grief, something new and strange.  At last, when her sorrow had
subsided to the dry shaking sobs of a tired child, without raising her
head she put out one groping hand.

"Aunt Ray!" she whispered.  In a moment I was on my knees beside her,
her arm around my neck, her cheek against my hair.

"Where am I in this?" Halsey said suddenly and tried to put his arms
around us both.  It was a welcome distraction, and Gertrude was soon
herself again.  The little storm had cleared the air. Nevertheless, my
opinion remained unchanged.  There was much to be cleared up before I
would consent to any renewal of my acquaintance with John Bailey.  And
Halsey and Gertrude knew it, knowing me.



CHAPTER XI

HALSEY MAKES A CAPTURE

It was about half-past eight when we left the dining-room and still
engrossed with one subject, the failure of the bank and its attendant
evils Halsey and I went out into the grounds for a stroll Gertrude
followed us shortly.  "The light was thickening," to appropriate
Shakespeare's description of twilight, and once again the tree-toads
and the crickets were making night throb with their tiny life.  It was
almost oppressively lonely, in spite of its beauty, and I felt a
sickening pang of homesickness for my city at night--for the clatter of
horses' feet on cemented paving, for the lights, the voices, the sound
of children playing.  The country after dark oppresses me.  The stars,
quite eclipsed in the city by the electric lights, here become
insistent, assertive.  Whether I want to or not, I find myself looking
for the few I know by name, and feeling ridiculously new and small by
contrast--always an unpleasant sensation.

After Gertrude joined us, we avoided any further mention of the murder.
To Halsey, as to me, there was ever present, I am sure, the thought of
our conversation of the night before.  As we strolled back and forth
along the drive, Mr. Jamieson emerged from the shadow of the trees.

"Good evening," he said, managing to include Gertrude in his bow.

Gertrude had never been even ordinarily courteous to him, and she
nodded coldly.  Halsey, however, was more cordial, although we were all
constrained enough.  He and Gertrude went on together, leaving the
detective to walk with me.  As soon as they were out of earshot, he
turned to me.

"Do you know, Miss Innes," he said, "the deeper I go into this thing,
the more strange it seems to me.  I am very sorry for Miss Gertrude.
It looks as if Bailey, whom she has tried so hard to save, is worse
than a rascal; and after her plucky fight for him, it seems hard."

I looked through the dusk to where Gertrude's light dinner dress
gleamed among the trees.  She HAD made a plucky fight, poor child.
Whatever she might have been driven to do, I could find nothing but a
deep sympathy for her.  If she had only come to me with the whole truth
then!

"Miss Innes," Mr. Jamieson was saying, "in the last three days, have
you seen a--any suspicious figures around the grounds? Any--woman?"

"No," I replied.  "I have a houseful of maids that will bear watching,
one and all.  But there has been no strange woman near the house or
Liddy would have seen her, you may be sure.  She has a telescopic eye."

Mr. Jamieson looked thoughtful.

"It may not amount to anything," he said slowly.  "It is difficult to
get any perspective on things around here, because every one down in
the village is sure he saw the murderer, either before or since the
crime.  And half of them will stretch a point or two as to facts, to be
obliging.  But the man who drives the hack down there tells a story
that may possibly prove to be important."

"I have heard it, I think.  Was it the one the parlor maid brought up
yesterday, about a ghost wringing its hands on the roof?  Or perhaps
it's the one the milk-boy heard: a tramp washing a dirty shirt,
presumably bloody, in the creek below the bridge?"

I could see the gleam of Mr. Jamieson's teeth, as he smiled.

"Neither," he said.  "But Matthew Geist, which is our friend's name,
claims that on Saturday night, at nine-thirty, a veiled lady--"

"I knew it would be a veiled lady," I broke in.

"A veiled lady," he persisted, "who was apparently young and beautiful,
engaged his hack and asked to be driven to Sunnyside. Near the gate,
however, she made him stop, in spite of his remonstrances, saying she
preferred to walk to the house.  She paid him, and he left her there.
Now, Miss Innes, you had no such visitor, I believe?"

"None," I said decidedly.

"Geist thought it might be a maid, as you had got a supply that day.
But he said her getting out near the gate puzzled him. Anyhow, we have
now one veiled lady, who, with the ghostly intruder of Friday night,
makes two assets that I hardly know what to do with."

"It is mystifying," I admitted, "although I can think of one possible
explanation.  The path from the Greenwood Club to the village enters
the road near the lodge gate.  A woman who wished to reach the Country
Club, unperceived, might choose such a method.  There are plenty of
women there."

I think this gave him something to ponder, for in a short time he said
good night and left.  But I myself was far from satisfied. I was
determined, however, on one thing.  If my suspicions--for I had
suspicions--were true, I would make my own investigations, and Mr.
Jamieson should learn only what was good for him to know.

We went back to the house, and Gertrude, who was more like herself
since her talk with Halsey, sat down at the mahogany desk in the
living-room to write a letter.  Halsey prowled up and down the entire
east wing, now in the card-room, now in the billiard-room, and now and
then blowing his clouds of tobacco smoke among the pink and gold
hangings of the drawing-room.  After a little I joined him in the
billiard-room, and together we went over the details of the discovery
of the body.

The card-room was quite dark.  Where we sat, in the billiard-room, only
one of the side brackets was lighted, and we spoke in subdued tones, as
the hour and the subject seemed to demand. When I spoke of the figure
Liddy and I had seen on the porch through the card-room window Friday
night, Halsey sauntered into the darkened room, and together we stood
there, much as Liddy and I had done that other night.

The window was the same grayish rectangle in the blackness as before.
A few feet away in the hall was the spot where the body of Arnold
Armstrong had been found.  I was a bit nervous, and I put my hand on
Halsey's sleeve.  Suddenly, from the top of the staircase above us came
the sound of a cautious footstep.  At first I was not sure, but
Halsey's attitude told me he had heard and was listening.  The step,
slow, measured, infinitely cautious, was nearer now.  Halsey tried to
loosen my fingers, but I was in a paralysis of fright.

The swish of a body against the curving rail, as if for guidance, was
plain enough, and now whoever it was had reached the foot of the
staircase and had caught a glimpse of our rigid silhouettes against the
billiard-room doorway.  Halsey threw me off then and strode forward.

"Who is it?" he called imperiously, and took a half dozen rapid strides
toward the foot of the staircase.  Then I heard him mutter something;
there was the crash of a falling body, the slam of the outer door, and,
for an instant, quiet.  I screamed, I think.  Then I remember turning
on the lights and finding Halsey, white with fury, trying to untangle
himself from something warm and fleecy.  He had cut his forehead a
little on the lowest step of the stairs, and he was rather a ghastly
sight.

He flung the white object at me, and, jerking open the outer door,
raced into the darkness.

Gertrude had come on hearing the noise, and now we stood, staring at
each other over--of all things on earth--a white silk and wool blanket,
exquisitely fine!  It was the most unghostly thing in the world, with
its lavender border and its faint scent. Gertrude was the first to
speak.

"Somebody--had it?" she asked.

"Yes.  Halsey tried to stop whoever it was and fell.  Gertrude, that
blanket is not mine.  I have never seen before."

She held it up and looked at it: then she went to the door on to the
veranda and threw it open.  Perhaps a hundred feet from the house were
two figures, that moved slowly toward us as we looked.

When they came within range of the light, I recognized Halsey, and with
him Mrs. Watson, the housekeeper.



CHAPTER XII

ONE MYSTERY FOR ANOTHER

The most commonplace incident takes on a new appearance if the
attendant circumstances are unusual.  There was no reason on earth why
Mrs. Watson should not have carried a blanket down the east wing
staircase, if she so desired.  But to take a blanket down at eleven
o'clock at night, with every precaution as to noise, and, when
discovered, to fling it at Halsey and bolt--Halsey's word, and a good
one--into the grounds,--this made the incident more than significant.

They moved slowly across the lawn and up the steps.  Halsey was talking
quietly, and Mrs. Watson was looking down and listening. She was a
woman of a certain amount of dignity, most efficient, so far as I could
see, although Liddy would have found fault if she dared.  But just now
Mrs. Watson's face was an enigma.  She was defiant, I think, under her
mask of submission, and she still showed the effect of nervous shock.

"Mrs. Watson," I said severely, "will you be so good as to explain this
rather unusual occurrence?"

"I don't think it so unusual, Miss Innes."  Her voice was deep and very
clear: just now it was somewhat tremulous.  "I was taking a blanket
down to Thomas, who is--not well to-night, and I used this staircase,
as being nearer the path to the lodge. When--Mr. Innes called and then
rushed at me, I--I was alarmed, and flung the blanket at him."

Halsey was examining the cut on his forehead in a small mirror on the
wall.  It was not much of an injury, but it had bled freely, and his
appearance was rather terrifying.

"Thomas ill?" he said, over his shoulder.  "Why,  I  thought I saw
Thomas out there as you made that cyclonic break out of the door and
over the porch."

I could see that under pretense of examining his injury he was watching
her through the mirror.

"Is this one of the servants' blankets, Mrs. Watson?" I asked, holding
up its luxurious folds to the light.

"Everything else is locked away," she replied.  Which was true enough,
no doubt.  I had rented the house without bed furnishings.

"If Thomas is ill," Halsey said, "some member of the family ought to go
down to see him.  You needn't bother, Mrs. Watson.  I will take the
blanket."

She drew herself up quickly, as if in protest, but she found nothing to
say.  She stood smoothing the folds of her dead black dress, her face
as white as chalk above it.  Then she seemed to make up her mind.

"Very well, Mr. Innes," she said.  "Perhaps you would better go. I have
done all I could."

And then she turned and went up the circular staircase, moving slowly
and with a certain dignity.  Below, the three of us stared at one
another across the intervening white blanket.

"Upon my word," Halsey broke out, "this place is a walking nightmare.
I have the feeling that we three outsiders who have paid our money for
the privilege of staying in this spook-factory, are living on the very
top of things.  We're on the lid, so to speak.  Now and then we get a
sight of the things inside, but we are not a part of them."

"Do you suppose," Gertrude asked doubtfully, "that she really meant
that blanket for Thomas?"

"Thomas was standing beside that magnolia tree," Halsey replied, "when
I ran after Mrs. Watson.  It's down to this, Aunt Ray. Rosie's basket
and Mrs. Watson's blanket can only mean one thing: there is somebody
hiding or being hidden in the lodge.  It wouldn't surprise me if we
hold the key to the whole situation now.  Anyhow, I'm going to the
lodge to investigate."

Gertrude wanted to go, too, but she looked so shaken that I insisted
she should not.  I sent for Liddy to help her to bed, and then Halsey
and I started for the lodge.  The grass was heavy with dew, and,
man-like, Halsey chose the shortest way across the lawn.  Half-way,
however, he stopped.

"We'd better go by the drive," he said.  "This isn't a lawn; it's a
field.  Where's the gardener these days?"

"There isn't any," I said meekly.  "We have been thankful enough, so
far, to have our meals prepared and served and the beds aired. The
gardener who belongs here is working at the club."

"Remind me to-morrow to send out a man from town," he said.  "I know
the very fellow."

I record this scrap of conversation, just as I have tried to put down
anything and everything that had a bearing on what followed, because
the gardener Halsey sent the next day played an important part in the
events of the next few weeks--events that culminated, as you know, by
stirring the country profoundly.  At that time, however, I was busy
trying to keep my skirts dry, and paid little or no attention to what
seemed then a most trivial remark.

Along the drive I showed Halsey where I had found Rosie's basket with
the bits of broken china piled inside.  He was rather skeptical.

"Warner probably," he said when I had finished.  "Began it as a joke on
Rosie, and ended by picking up the broken china out of the road,
knowing it would play hob with the tires of the car." Which shows how
near one can come to the truth, and yet miss it altogether.

At the lodge everything was quiet.  There was a light in the
sitting-room down-stairs, and a faint gleam, as if from a shaded lamp,
in one of the upper rooms.  Halsey stopped and examined the lodge with
calculating eyes.

"I don't know, Aunt Ray," he said dubiously; "this is hardly a woman's
affair.  If there's a scrap of any kind, you hike for the timber."
Which was Halsey's solicitous care for me, put into vernacular.

"I shall stay right here," I said, and crossing the small veranda, now
shaded and fragrant with honeysuckle, I hammered the knocker on the
door.

Thomas opened the door himself--Thomas, fully dressed and in his
customary health.  I had the blanket over my arm.

"I brought the blanket, Thomas," I said; "I am sorry you are so ill."

The old man stood staring at me and then at the blanket.  His confusion
under other circumstances would have been ludicrous.

"What!  Not ill?" Halsey said from the step.  "Thomas, I'm afraid
you've been malingering."

Thomas seemed to have been debating something with himself.  Now he
stepped out on the porch and closed the door gently behind him.

"I reckon you bettah come in, Mis' Innes," he said, speaking
cautiously.  "It's got so I dunno what to do, and it's boun' to come
out some time er ruther."

He threw the door open then, and I stepped inside, Halsey close behind.
In the sitting-room the old negro turned with quiet dignity to Halsey.

"You bettah sit down, sah," he said.  "It's a place for a woman, sah."

Things were not turning out the way Halsey expected.  He sat down on
the center-table, with his hands thrust in his pockets, and watched me
as I followed Thomas up the narrow stairs.  At the top a woman was
standing, and a second glance showed me it was Rosie.

She shrank back a little, but I said nothing.  And then Thomas motioned
to a partly open door, and I went in.

The lodge boasted three bedrooms up-stairs, all comfortably furnished.
In this one, the largest and airiest, a night lamp was burning, and by
its light I could make out a plain white metal bed.  A girl was asleep
there--or in a half stupor, for she muttered something now and then.
Rosie had taken her courage in her hands, and coming in had turned up
the light.  It was only then that I knew.  Fever-flushed, ill as she
was, I recognized Louise Armstrong.

I stood gazing down at her in a stupor of amazement.  Louise here,
hiding at the lodge, ill and alone!  Rosie came up to the bed and
smoothed the white counterpane.

"I am afraid she is worse to-night," she ventured at last. I put my
hand on the sick girl's forehead.  It was burning with fever, and I
turned to where Thomas lingered in the hallway.

"Will you tell me what you mean, Thomas Johnson, by not telling me this
before?" I demanded indignantly.

Thomas quailed.

"Mis' Louise wouldn' let me," he said earnestly.  "I wanted to. She
ought to 'a' had a doctor the night she came, but she wouldn' hear to
it.  Is she--is she very bad, Mis' Innes?"

"Bad enough," I said coldly.  "Send Mr. Innes up."

Halsey came up the stairs slowly, looking rather interested and
inclined to be amused.  For a moment he could not see anything
distinctly in the darkened room; he stopped, glanced at Rosie and at
me, and then his eyes fell on the restless head on the pillow.

I think he felt who it was before he really saw her; he crossed the
room in a couple of strides and bent over the bed.

"Louise!" he said softly; but she did not reply, and her eyes showed no
recognition.  Halsey was young, and illness was new to him.  He
straightened himself slowly, still watching her, and caught my arm.

"She's dying, Aunt Ray!" he said huskily.  "Dying!  Why, she doesn't
know me!"

"Fudge!" I snapped, being apt to grow irritable when my sympathies are
aroused.  "She's doing nothing of the sort,--and don't pinch my arm.
If you want something to do, go and choke Thomas."

But at that moment Louise roused from her stupor to cough, and at the
end of the paroxysm, as Rosie laid her back, exhausted, she knew us.
That was all Halsey wanted; to him consciousness was recovery.  He
dropped on his knees beside the bed, and tried to tell her she was all
right, and we would bring her around in a hurry, and how beautiful she
looked--only to break down utterly and have to stop.  And at that I
came to my senses, and put him out.

"This instant!" I ordered, as he hesitated.  "And send Rosie here."

He did not go far.  He sat on the top step of the stairs, only leaving
to telephone for a doctor, and getting in everybody's way in his
eagerness to fetch and carry.  I got him away finally, by sending him
to fix up the car as a sort of ambulance, in case the doctor would
allow the sick girl to be moved.  He sent Gertrude down to the lodge
loaded with all manner of impossible things, including an armful of
Turkish towels and a box of mustard plasters, and as the two girls had
known each other somewhat before, Louise brightened perceptibly when
she saw her.

When the doctor from Englewood--the Casanova doctor, Doctor Walker,
being away--had started for Sunnyside, and I had got Thomas to stop
trying to explain what he did not understand himself, I had a long talk
with the old man, and this is what I learned.

On Saturday evening before, about ten o'clock, he had been reading in
the sitting-room down-stairs, when some one rapped at the door.  The
old man was alone, Warner not having arrived, and at first he was
uncertain about opening the door.  He did so finally, and was amazed at
being confronted by Louise Armstrong. Thomas was an old family servant,
having been with the present Mrs. Armstrong since she was a child, and
he was overwhelmed at seeing Louise.  He saw that she was excited and
tired, and he drew her into the sitting-room and made her sit down.
After a while he went to the house and brought Mrs. Watson, and they
talked until late.  The old man said Louise was in trouble, and seemed
frightened.  Mrs. Watson made some tea and took it to the lodge, but
Louise made them both promise to keep her presence a secret.  She had
not known that Sunnyside was rented, and whatever her trouble was, this
complicated things.  She seemed puzzled.  Her stepfather and her mother
were still in California--that was all she would say about them.  Why
she had run away no one could imagine.  Mr. Arnold Armstrong was at the
Greenwood Club, and at last Thomas, not knowing what else to do, went
over there along the path.  It was almost midnight. Part-way over he
met Armstrong himself and brought him to the lodge. Mrs. Watson had
gone to the house for some bed-linen, it having been arranged that
under the circumstances Louise would be better at the lodge until
morning.  Arnold Armstrong and Louise had a long conference, during
which he was heard to storm and become very violent.  When he left it
was after two.  He had gone up to the house--Thomas did not know
why--and at three o'clock he was shot at the foot of the circular
staircase.

The following morning Louise had been ill.  She had asked for Arnold,
and was told he had left town.  Thomas had not the moral courage to
tell her of the crime.  She refused a doctor, and shrank morbidly from
having her presence known.  Mrs. Watson and Thomas had had their hands
full, and at last Rosie had been enlisted to help them.  She carried
necessary provisions--little enough--to the lodge, and helped to keep
the secret.

Thomas told me quite frankly that he had been anxious to keep Louise's
presence hidden for this reason: they had all seen Arnold Armstrong
that night, and he, himself, for one, was known to have had no very
friendly feeling for the dead man.  As to the reason for Louise's
flight from California, or why she had not gone to the Fitzhughs', or
to some of her people in town, he had no more information than I had.
With the death of her stepfather and the prospect of the immediate
return of the family, things had become more and more impossible.  I
gathered that Thomas was as relieved as I at the turn events had taken.
No, she did not know of either of the deaths in the family.

Taken all around, I had only substituted one mystery for another.

If I knew now why Rosie had taken the basket of dishes, I did not know
who had spoken to her and followed her along the drive.  If I knew that
Louise was in the lodge, I did not know why she was there.  If I knew
that Arnold Armstrong had spent some time in the lodge the night before
he was murdered, I was no nearer the solution of the crime.  Who was
the midnight intruder who had so alarmed Liddy and myself?  Who had
fallen down the clothes chute?  Was Gertrude's lover a villain or a
victim?  Time was to answer all these things.



CHAPTER XIII

LOUISE

The doctor from Englewood came very soon, and I went up to see the sick
girl with him.  Halsey had gone to supervise the fitting of the car
with blankets and pillows, and Gertrude was opening and airing Louise's
own rooms at the house.  Her private sitting-room, bedroom and
dressing-room were as they had been when we came.  They occupied the
end of the east wing, beyond the circular staircase, and we had not
even opened them.

The girl herself was too ill to notice what was being done. When, with
the help of the doctor, who was a fatherly man with a family of girls
at home, we got her to the house and up the stairs into bed, she
dropped into a feverish sleep, which lasted until morning.  Doctor
Stewart--that was the Englewood doctor--stayed almost all night, giving
the medicine himself, and watching her closely.  Afterward he told me
that she had had a narrow escape from pneumonia, and that the cerebral
symptoms had been rather alarming.  I said I was glad it wasn't an
"itis" of some kind, anyhow, and he smiled solemnly.

He left after breakfast, saying that he thought the worst of the danger
was over, and that she must be kept very quiet.

"The shock of two deaths, I suppose, has done this," he remarked,
picking up his case.  "It has been very deplorable."

I hastened to set him right.

"She does not know of either, Doctor," I said.  "Please do not mention
them to her."

He looked as surprised as a medical man ever does.

"I do not know the family," he said, preparing to get into his top
buggy.  "Young Walker, down in Casanova, has been attending them.  I
understand he is going to marry this young lady."

"You have been misinformed," I said stiffly.  "Miss Armstrong is going
to marry my nephew."

The doctor smiled as he picked up the reins.

"Young ladies are changeable these days," he said.  "We thought the
wedding was to occur soon.  Well, I will stop in this afternoon to see
how my patient is getting along."

He drove away then, and I stood looking after him.  He was a doctor of
the old school, of the class of family practitioner that is fast dying
out; a loyal and honorable gentleman who was at once physician and
confidential adviser to his patients.  When I was a girl we called in
the doctor alike when we had measles, or when mother's sister died in
the far West.  He cut out redundant tonsils and brought the babies with
the same air of inspiring self-confidence.  Nowadays it requires a
different specialist for each of these occurrences.  When the babies
cried, old Doctor Wainwright gave them peppermint and dropped warm
sweet oil in their ears with sublime faith that if it was not colic it
was earache.  When, at the end of a year, father met him driving in his
high side-bar buggy with the white mare ambling along, and asked for a
bill, the doctor used to go home, estimate what his services were worth
for that period, divide it in half--I don't think he kept any
books--and send father a statement, in a cramped hand, on a sheet of
ruled white paper.  He was an honored guest at all the weddings,
christenings, and funerals--yes, funerals--for every one knew he had
done his best, and there was no gainsaying the ways of Providence.

Ah, well, Doctor Wainwright is gone, and I am an elderly woman with an
increasing tendency to live in the past.  The contrast between my old
doctor at home and the Casanova doctor, Frank Walker, always rouses me
to wrath and digression.

Some time about noon of that day, Wednesday, Mrs. Ogden Fitzhugh
telephoned me.  I have the barest acquaintance with her--she managed to
be put on the governing board of the Old Ladies' Home and ruins their
digestions by sending them ice-cream and cake on every holiday.  Beyond
that, and her reputation at bridge, which is insufferably bad--she is
the worst player at the bridge club--I know little of her.  It was she
who had taken charge of Arnold Armstrong's funeral, however, and I went
at once to the telephone.

"Yes," I said, "this is Miss Innes."

"Miss Innes," she said volubly, "I have just received a very strange
telegram from my cousin, Mrs. Armstrong.  Her husband died yesterday,
in California and--wait, I will read you the message."

I knew what was coming, and I made up my mind at once.  If Louise
Armstrong had a good and sufficient reason for leaving her people and
coming home, a reason, moreover, that kept her from going at once to
Mrs. Ogden Fitzhugh, and that brought her to the lodge at Sunnyside
instead, it was not my intention to betray her.  Louise herself must
notify her people.  I do not justify myself now, but remember, I was in
a peculiar position toward the Armstrong family.  I was connected most
unpleasantly with a cold-blooded crime, and my niece and nephew were
practically beggared, either directly or indirectly, through the head
of the family.

Mrs. Fitzhugh had found the message.

"'Paul died yesterday.  Heart disease,'" she read.  "'Wire at once if
Louise is with you.'  You see, Miss Innes, Louise must have started
east, and Fanny is alarmed about her."

"Yes," I said.

"Louise is not here," Mrs. Fitzhugh went on, "and none of her
friends--the few who are still in town--has seen her.  I called you
because Sunnyside was not rented when she went away, and Louise might
have, gone there."

"I am sorry, Mrs. Fitzhugh, but I can not help you," I said, and was
immediately filled with compunction.  Suppose Louise grew worse?  Who
was I to play Providence in this case?  The anxious mother certainly
had a right to know that her daughter was in good hands.  So I broke in
on Mrs. Fitzhugh's voluble excuses for disturbing me.

"Mrs. Fitzhugh," I said.  "I was going to let you think I knew nothing
about Louise Armstrong, but I have changed my mind. Louise is here,
with me."  There was a clatter of ejaculations at the other end of the
wire.  "She is ill, and not able to be moved.  Moreover, she is unable
to see any one.  I wish you would wire her mother that she is with me,
and tell her not to worry. No, I do not know why she came east."

"But my dear Miss Innes!" Mrs. Fitzhugh began.  I cut in ruthlessly.

"I will send for you as soon as she can see you," I said.  "No, she is
not in a critical state now, but the doctor says she must have absolute
quiet."

When I had hung up the receiver, I sat down to think.  So Louise had
fled from her people in California, and had come east alone! It was not
a new idea, but why had she done it?  It occurred to me that Doctor
Walker might be concerned in it, might possibly have bothered her with
unwelcome attentions; but it seemed to me that Louise was hardly a girl
to take refuge in flight under such circumstances.  She had always been
high-spirited, with the well-poised head and buoyant step of the
outdoors girl. It must have been much more in keeping with Louise's
character, as I knew it, to resent vigorously any unwelcome attentions
from Doctor Walker.  It was the suitor whom I should have expected to
see in headlong flight, not the lady in the case.

The puzzle was no clearer at the end of the half-hour.  I picked up the
morning papers, which were still full of the looting of the Traders'
Bank, the interest at fever height again, on account of Paul
Armstrong's death.  The bank examiners were working on the books, and
said nothing for publication: John Bailey had been released on bond.
The body of Paul Armstrong would arrive Sunday and would be buried from
the Armstrong town house.  There were rumors that the dead man's estate
had been a comparatively small one.  The last paragraph was the
important one.

Walter P. Broadhurst, of the Marine Bank, had produced two hundred
American Traction bonds, which had been placed as security with the
Marine Bank for a loan of one hundred and sixty thousand dollars, made
to Paul Armstrong, just before his California trip.  The bonds were a
part of the missing traction bonds from the Traders' Bank!  While this
involved the late president of the wrecked bank, to my mind it by no
means cleared its cashier.

The gardener mentioned by Halsey came out about two o'clock in the
afternoon, and walked up from the station.  I was favorably impressed
by him.  His references were good--he had been employed by the Brays'
until they went to Europe, and he looked young and vigorous.  He asked
for one assistant, and I was glad enough to get off so easily.  He was
a pleasant-faced young fellow, with black hair and blue eyes, and his
name was Alexander Graham.  I have been particular about Alex, because,
as I said before, he played an important part later.

That afternoon I had a new insight into the character of the dead
banker.  I had my first conversation with Louise.  She sent for me, and
against my better judgment I went.  There were so many things she could
not be told, in her weakened condition, that I dreaded the interview.
It was much easier than I expected, however, because she asked no
questions.

Gertrude had gone to bed, having been up almost all night, and Halsey
was absent on one of those mysterious absences of his that grew more
and more frequent as time went on, until it culminated in the event of
the night of June the tenth.  Liddy was in attendance in the sick-room.
There being little or nothing to do, she seemed to spend her time
smoothing the wrinkles from the counterpane.  Louise lay under a field
of virgin white, folded back at an angle of geometrical exactness, and
necessitating a readjustment every time the sick girl turned.

Liddy heard my approach and came out to meet me.  She seemed to be in a
perpetual state of goose-flesh, and she had got in the habit of looking
past me when she talked, as if she saw things. It had the effect of
making me look over my shoulder to see what she was staring at, and was
intensely irritating.

"She's awake," Liddy said, looking uneasily down the circular
staircase, which was beside me.  "She was talkin' in her sleep
something awful--about dead men and coffins."

"Liddy," I said sternly, "did you breathe a word about everything not
being right here?"

Liddy's gaze had wandered to the door of the chute, now bolted securely.

"Not a word," she said, "beyond asking her a question or two, which
there was no harm in.  She says there never was a ghost known here."

I glared at her, speechless, and closing the door into Louise's
boudoir, to Liddy's great disappointment, I went on to the bedroom
beyond.

Whatever Paul Armstrong had been, he had been lavish with his
stepdaughter.  Gertrude's rooms at home were always beautiful
apartments, but the three rooms in the east wing at Sunnyside, set
apart for the daughter of the house, were much more splendid.

From the walls to the rugs on the floor, from the furniture to the
appointments of the bath, with its pool sunk in the floor instead of
the customary unlovely tub, everything was luxurious. In the bedroom
Louise was watching for me.  It was easy to see that she was much
improved; the flush was going, and the peculiar gasping breathing of
the night before was now a comfortable and easy respiration.

She held out her hand and I took it between both of mine.

"What can I say to you, Miss Innes?" she said slowly.  "To have come
like this--"

I thought she was going to break down, but she did not.

"You are not to think of anything but of getting well," I said, patting
her hand.  "When you are better, I am going to scold you for not coming
here at once.  This is your home, my dear, and of all people in the
world, Halsey's old aunt ought to make you welcome."

She smiled a little, sadly, I thought.

"I ought not to see Halsey," she said.  "Miss Innes, there are a great
many things you will never understand, I am afraid.  I am an impostor
on your sympathy, because I--I stay here and let you lavish care on me,
and all the time I know you are going to despise me."

"Nonsense!" I said briskly.  "Why, what would Halsey do to me if I even
ventured such a thing?  He is so big and masterful that if I dared to
be anything but rapturous over you, he would throw me out of a window.
Indeed, he would be quite capable of it."

She seemed scarcely to hear my facetious tone.  She had eloquent brown
eyes--the Inneses are fair, and are prone to a grayish-green optic that
is better for use than appearance--and they seemed now to be clouded
with trouble.

"Poor Halsey!" she said softly.  "Miss Innes, I can not marry him, and
I am afraid to tell him.  I am a coward--a coward!"

I sat beside the bed and stared at her.  She was too ill to argue with,
and, besides, sick people take queer fancies.

"We will talk about that when you are stronger," I said gently.

"But there are some things I must tell you," she insisted.  "You must
wonder how I came here, and why I stayed hidden at the lodge.  Dear old
Thomas has been almost crazy, Miss Innes.  I did not know that
Sunnyside was rented.  I knew my mother wished to rent it, without
telling my--stepfather, but the news must have reached her after I
left.  When I started east, I had only one idea--to be alone with my
thoughts for a time, to bury myself here.  Then, I--must have taken a
cold on the train."

"You came east in clothing suitable for California," I said, "and, like
all young girls nowadays, I don't suppose you wear flannels."  But she
was not listening.

"Miss Innes," she said, "has my stepbrother Arnold gone away?"

"What do you mean?" I asked, startled.  But Louise was literal.

"He didn't come back that night," she said, "and it was so important
that I should see him."

"I believe he has gone away," I replied uncertainly.  "Isn't it
something that we could attend to instead?"

But she shook her head.  "I must do it myself," she said dully. "My
mother must have rented Sunnyside without telling my stepfather,
and--Miss Innes, did you ever hear of any one being wretchedly poor in
the midst of luxury?

"Did you ever long, and long, for money--money to use without question,
money that no one would take you to task about?  My mother and I have
been surrounded for years with every indulgence everything that would
make a display.  But we have never had any money, Miss Innes; that must
have been why mother rented this house.  My stepfather pays our bills.
It's the most maddening, humiliating existence in the world.  I would
love honest poverty better."

"Never mind," I said; "when you and Halsey are married you can be as
honest as you like, and you will certainly be poor."

Halsey came to the door at that moment and I could hear him coaxing
Liddy for admission to the sick room.

"Shall I bring him in?" I asked Louise, uncertain what to do. The girl
seemed to shrink back among her pillows at the sound of his voice.  I
was vaguely irritated with her; there are few young fellows like
Halsey--straightforward, honest, and willing to sacrifice everything
for the one woman.  I knew one once, more than thirty years ago, who
was like that: he died a long time ago.  And sometimes I take out his
picture, with its cane and its queer silk hat, and look at it.  But of
late years it has grown too painful: he is always a boy--and I am an
old woman.  I would not bring him back if I could.

Perhaps it was some such memory that made me call out sharply.

"Come in, Halsey."  And then I took my sewing and went into the boudoir
beyond, to play propriety.  I did not try to hear what they said, but
every word came through the open door with curious distinctness.
Halsey had evidently gone over to the bed and I suppose he kissed her.
There was silence for a moment, as if words were superfluous things.

"I have been almost wild, sweetheart,"--Halsey's voice.  "Why didn't
you trust me, and send for me before?"

"It was because I couldn't trust myself," she said in a low tone.

"I am too weak to struggle to-day; oh, Halsey, how I have wanted to see
you!"

There was something I did not hear, then Halsey again.

"We could go away," he was saying.  "What does it matter about any one
in the world but just the two of us?  To be always together, like this,
hand in hand; Louise--don't tell me it isn't going to be.  I won't
believe you."

"You don't know; you don't know," Louise repeated dully. "Halsey, I
care--you know that--but--not enough to marry you."

"That is not true, Louise," he said sternly.  "You can not look at me
with your honest eyes and say that."

"I can not marry you," she repeated miserably.  "It's bad enough, isn't
it?  Don't make it worse.  Some day, before long, you will be glad."

"Then it is because you have never loved me."  There were depths of
hurt pride in his voice.  "You saw how much I loved you, and you let me
think you cared--for a while.  No--that isn't like you, Louise.  There
is something you haven't told me.  Is it--because there is some one
else?"

"Yes," almost inaudibly.

"Louise!  Oh, I don't believe it."

"It is true," she said sadly.  "Halsey, you must not try to see me
again.  As soon as I can, I am going away from here--where you are all
so much kinder than I deserve.  And whatever you hear about me, try to
think as well of me as you can.  I am going to marry--another man.  How
you must hate me--hate me!"

I could hear Halsey cross the room to the window.  Then, after a pause,
he went back to her again.  I could hardly sit still; I wanted to go in
and give her a good shaking.

"Then it's all over," he was saying with a long breath.  "The plans we
made together, the hopes, the--all of it--over!  Well, I'll not be a
baby, and I'll give you up the minute you say 'I don't love you and I
do love--some one else'!"

"I can not say that," she breathed, "but, very soon, I shall marry--the
other man."

I could hear Halsey's low triumphant laugh.

"I defy him," he said.  "Sweetheart, as long as you care for me, I am
not afraid."

The wind slammed the door between the two rooms just then, and I could
hear nothing more, although I moved my chair quite close. After a
discreet interval, I went into the other room, and found Louise alone.
She was staring with sad eyes at the cherub painted on the ceiling over
the bed, and because she looked tired I did not disturb her.



CHAPTER XIV

AN EGG-NOG AND A TELEGRAM

We had discovered Louise at the lodge Tuesday night.  It was Wednesday
I had my interview with her.  Thursday and Friday were uneventful, save
as they marked improvement in our patient. Gertrude spent almost all
the time with her, and the two had grown to be great friends.  But
certain things hung over me constantly; the coroner's inquest on the
death of Arnold Armstrong, to be held Saturday, and the arrival of Mrs.
Armstrong and young Doctor Walker, bringing the body of the dead
president of the Traders' Bank.  We had not told Louise of either death.

Then, too, I was anxious about the children.  With their mother's
inheritance swept away in the wreck of the bank, and with their love
affairs in a disastrous condition, things could scarcely be worse.
Added to that, the cook and Liddy had a flare-up over the proper way to
make beef-tea for Louise, and, of course, the cook left.

Mrs. Watson had been glad enough, I think, to turn Louise over to our
care, and Thomas went upstairs night and morning to greet his young
mistress from the doorway.  Poor Thomas!  He had the faculty--found
still in some old negroes, who cling to the traditions of slavery
days--of making his employer's interest his.  It was always "we" with
Thomas; I miss him sorely; pipe-smoking, obsequious, not over reliable,
kindly old man!

On Thursday Mr. Harton, the Armstrongs' legal adviser, called up from
town.  He had been advised, he said, that Mrs. Armstrong was coming
east with her husband's body and would arrive Monday.  He came with
some hesitation, he went on, to the fact that he had been further
instructed to ask me to relinquish my lease on Sunnyside, as it was
Mrs. Armstrong's desire to come directly there.

I was aghast.

"Here!" I said.  "Surely you are mistaken, Mr. Harton.  I should think,
after--what happened here only a few days ago, she would never wish to
come back."

"Nevertheless," he replied, "she is most anxious to come.  This is what
she says.  'Use every possible means to have Sunnyside vacated.  Must
go there at once.'"

"Mr. Harton," I said testily, "I am not going to do anything of the
kind.  I and mine have suffered enough at the hands of this family.  I
rented the house at an exorbitant figure and I have moved out here for
the summer.  My city home is dismantled and in the hands of decorators.
I have been here one week, during which I have had not a single night
of uninterrupted sleep, and I intend to stay until I have recuperated.
Moreover, if Mr. Armstrong died insolvent, as I believe was the case,
his widow ought to be glad to be rid of so expensive a piece of
property."

The lawyer cleared his throat.

"I am very sorry you have made this decision," he said.  "Miss Innes,
Mrs. Fitzhugh tells me Louise Armstrong is with you."

"She is."

"Has she been informed of this--double bereavement?"

"Not yet," I said.  "She has been very ill; perhaps to-night she can be
told."

"It is very sad; very sad," he said.  "I have a telegram for her, Mrs.
Innes.  Shall I send it out?"

"Better open it and read it to me," I suggested.  "If it is important,
that will save time."

There was a pause while Mr. Harton opened the telegram.  Then he read
it slowly, judicially.

"'Watch for Nina Carrington.  Home Monday.  Signed F. L. W.'"

"Hum!" I said.  "'Watch for Nina Carrington.  Home Monday.'  Very well,
Mr. Harton, I will tell her, but she is not in condition to watch for
any one."

"Well, Miss Innes, if you decide to--er--relinquish the lease, let me
know," the lawyer said.

"I shall not relinquish it," I replied, and I imagined his irritation
from the way he hung up the receiver.

I wrote the telegram down word for word, afraid to trust my memory, and
decided to ask Doctor Stewart how soon Louise might be told the truth.
The closing of the Traders' Bank I considered unnecessary for her to
know, but the death of her stepfather and stepbrother must be broken to
her soon, or she might hear it in some unexpected and shocking manner.

Doctor Stewart came about four o'clock, bringing his leather satchel
into the house with a great deal of care, and opening it at the foot of
the stairs to show me a dozen big yellow eggs nesting among the bottles.

"Real eggs," he said proudly.  "None of your anemic store eggs, but the
real thing--some of them still warm.  Feel them!  Egg-nog for Miss
Louise."

He was beaming with satisfaction, and before he left, he insisted on
going back to the pantry and making an egg-nog with his own hands.
Somehow, all the time he was doing it, I had a vision of Doctor
Willoughby, my nerve specialist in the city, trying to make an egg-nog.
I wondered if he ever prescribed anything so plebeian--and so
delicious.  And while Doctor Stewart whisked the eggs he talked.

"I said to Mrs. Stewart," he confided, a little red in the face from
the exertion, "after I went home the other day, that you would think me
an old gossip, for saying what I did about Walker and Miss Louise."

"Nothing of the sort," I protested.

"The fact is," he went on, evidently justifying him self, "I got that
piece of information just as we get a lot of things, through the
kitchen end of the house.  Young Walker's chauffeur--Walker's more
fashionable than I am, and he goes around the country in a Stanhope
car--well, his chauffeur comes to see our servant girl, and he told her
the whole thing.  I thought it was probable, because Walker spent a lot
of time up here last summer, when the family was here, and besides,
Riggs, that's Walker's man, had a very pat little story about the
doctor's building a house on this property, just at the foot of the
hill.  The sugar, please."

The egg-nog was finished.  Drop by drop the liquor had cooked the egg,
and now, with a final whisk, a last toss in the shaker, it was ready, a
symphony in gold and white.  The doctor sniffed it.

"Real eggs, real milk, and a touch of real Kentucky whisky," he said.

He insisted on carrying it up himself, but at the foot of the stairs he
paused.

"Riggs said the plans were drawn for the house," he said, harking back
to the old subject.  "Drawn by Huston in town.  So I naturally believed
him."

When the doctor came down, I was ready with a question.

"Doctor," I asked, "is there any one in the neighborhood named
Carrington?  Nina Carrington?"

"Carrington?"  He wrinkled his forehead.  "Carrington?  No, I don't
remember any such family.  There used to be Covingtons down the creek."

"The name was Carrington," I said, and the subject lapsed.

Gertrude and Halsey went for a long walk that afternoon, and Louise
slept.  Time hung heavy on my hands, and I did as I had fallen into a
habit of doing lately--I sat down and thought things over.  One result
of my meditations was that I got up suddenly and went to the telephone.
I had taken the most intense dislike to this Doctor Walker, whom I had
never seen, and who was being talked of in the countryside as the
fiance of Louise Armstrong.

I knew Sam Huston well.  There had been a time, when Sam was a good
deal younger than he is now, before he had married Anne Endicott, when
I knew him even better.  So now I felt no hesitation in calling him
over the telephone.  But when his office boy had given way to his
confidential clerk, and that functionary had condescended to connect
his employer's desk telephone, I was somewhat at a loss as to how to
begin.

"Why, how are you, Rachel?" Sam said sonorously.  "Going to build that
house at Rock View?"  It was a twenty-year-old joke of his.

"Sometime, perhaps," I said.  "Just now I want to ask you a question
about something which is none of my business."

"I see you haven't changed an iota in a quarter of a century, Rachel."
This was intended to be another jest.  "Ask ahead: everything but my
domestic affairs is at your service."

"Try to be serious," I said.  "And tell me this: has your firm made any
plans for a house recently, for a Doctor Walker, at Casanova?"

"Yes, we have."

"Where was it to be built?  I have a reason for asking."

"It was to be, I believe, on the Armstrong place.  Mr. Armstrong
himself consulted me, and the inference was--in fact, I am quite
certain--the house was to be occupied by Mr. Armstrong's daughter, who
was engaged to marry Doctor Walker."

When the architect had inquired for the different members of my family,
and had finally rung off, I was certain of one thing. Louise Armstrong
was in love with Halsey, and the man she was going to marry was Doctor
Walker.  Moreover, this decision was not new; marriage had been
contemplated for some time. There must certainly be some
explanation--but what was it?

That day I repeated to Louise the telegram Mr. Warton had opened.

She seemed to understand, but an unhappier face I have never seen.  She
looked like a criminal whose reprieve is over, and the day of execution
approaching.



CHAPTER XV

LIDDY GIVES THE ALARM

The next day, Friday, Gertrude broke the news of her stepfather's death
to Louise.  She did it as gently as she could, telling her first that
he was very ill, and finally that he was dead.  Louise received the
news in the most unexpected manner, and when Gertrude came out to tell
me how she had stood it, I think she was almost shocked.

"She just lay and stared at me, Aunt Ray," she said.  "Do you know, I
believe she is glad, glad!  And she is too honest to pretend anything
else.  What sort of man was Mr. Paul Armstrong, anyhow?"

"He was a bully as well as a rascal, Gertrude," I said.  "But I am
convinced of one thing; Louise will send for Halsey now, and they will
make it all up."

For Louise had steadily refused to see Halsey all that day, and the boy
was frantic.

We had a quiet hour, Halsey and I, that evening, and I told him several
things; about the request that we give up the lease to Sunnyside, about
the telegram to Louise, about the rumors of an approaching marriage
between the girl and Doctor Walker, and, last of all, my own interview
with her the day before.

He sat back in a big chair, with his face in the shadow, and my heart
fairly ached for him.  He was so big and so boyish!  When I had
finished he drew a long breath.

"Whatever Louise does," he said, "nothing will convince me, Aunt Ray,
that she doesn't care for me.  And up to two months ago, when she and
her mother went west, I was the happiest fellow on earth.  Then
something made a difference: she wrote me that her people were opposed
to the marriage; that her feeling for me was what it had always been,
but that something had happened which had changed her ideas as to the
future.  I was not to write until she wrote me, and whatever occurred,
I was to think the best I could of her.  It sounded like a puzzle.
When I saw her yesterday, it was the same thing, only, perhaps, worse."

"Halsey," I asked, "have you any idea of the nature of the interview
between Louise Armstrong and Arnold the night he was murdered?"

"It was stormy.  Thomas says once or twice he almost broke into the
room, he was so alarmed for Louise."

"Another thing, Halsey," I said, "have you ever heard Louise mention a
woman named Carrington, Nina Carrington?"

"Never," he said positively.

For try as we would, our thoughts always came back to that fatal
Saturday night, and the murder.  Every conversational path led to it,
and we all felt that Jamieson was tightening the threads of evidence
around John Bailey.  The detective's absence was hardly reassuring; he
must have had something to work on in town, or he would have returned.

The papers reported that the cashier of the Traders' Bank was ill in
his apartments at the Knickerbocker--a condition not surprising,
considering everything.  The guilt of the defunct president was no
longer in doubt; the missing bonds had been advertised and some of them
discovered.  In every instance they had been used as collateral for
large loans, and the belief was current that not less than a million
and a half dollars had been realized.  Every one connected with the
bank had been placed under arrest, and released on heavy bond.

Was he alone in his guilt, or was the cashier his accomplice? Where was
the money?  The estate of the dead man was comparatively small--a city
house on a fashionable street, Sunnyside, a large estate largely
mortgaged, an insurance of fifty thousand dollars, and some personal
property--this was all.

The rest lost in speculation probably, the papers said.  There was one
thing which looked uncomfortable for Jack Bailey: he and Paul Armstrong
together had promoted a railroad company in New Mexico, and it was
rumored that together they had sunk large sums of money there.  The
business alliance between the two men added to the belief that Bailey
knew something of the looting.  His unexplained absence from the bank
on Monday lent color to the suspicion against him.  The strange thing
seemed to be his surrendering himself on the point of departure.  To
me, it seemed the shrewd calculation of a clever rascal.  I was not
actively antagonistic to Gertrude's lover, but I meant to be convinced,
one way or the other.  I took no one on faith.

That night the Sunnyside ghost began to walk again.  Liddy had been
sleeping in Louise's dressing-room on a couch, and the approach of dusk
was a signal for her to barricade the entire suite.  Situated as its
was, beyond the circular staircase, nothing but an extremity of
excitement would have made her pass it after dark.  I confess myself
that the place seemed to me to have a sinister appearance, but we kept
that wing well lighted, and until the lights went out at midnight it
was really cheerful, if one did not know its history.

On Friday night, then, I had gone to bed, resolved to go at once to
sleep.  Thoughts that insisted on obtruding themselves I pushed
resolutely to the back of my mind, and I systematically relaxed every
muscle.  I fell asleep soon, and was dreaming that Doctor Walker was
building his new house immediately in front of my windows: I could hear
the thump-thump of the hammers, and then I waked to a knowledge that
somebody was pounding on my door.

I was up at once, and with the sound of my footstep on the floor the
low knocking ceased, to be followed immediately by sibilant whispering
through the keyhole.

"Miss Rachel! Miss Rachel!" somebody was saying, over and over.

"Is that you, Liddy?" I asked, my hand on the knob.

"For the love of mercy, let me in!" she said in a low tone.

She was leaning against the door, for when I opened it, she fell in.
She was greenish-white, and she had a red and black barred flannel
petticoat over her shoulders.

"Listen," she said, standing in the middle of the floor and holding on
to me.  "Oh, Miss Rachel, it's the ghost of that dead man hammering to
get in!"

Sure enough, there was a dull thud--thud--thud from some place near.
It was muffled: one rather felt than heard it, and it was impossible to
locate.  One moment it seemed to come, three taps and a pause, from the
floor under us: the next, thud--thud--thud--it came apparently from the
wall.

"It's not a ghost," I said decidedly.  "If it was a ghost it wouldn't
rap: it would come through the keyhole."  Liddy looked at the keyhole.
"But it sounds very much as though some one is trying to break into the
house."

Liddy was shivering violently.  I told her to get me my slippers and
she brought me a pair of kid gloves, so I found my things myself, and
prepared to call Halsey.  As before, the night alarm had found the
electric lights gone: the hall, save for its night lamp, was in
darkness, as I went across to Halsey's room.  I hardly know what I
feared, but it was a relief to find him there, very sound asleep, and
with his door unlocked.

"Wake up, Halsey," I said, shaking him.

He stirred a little.  Liddy was half in and half out of the door,
afraid as usual to be left alone, and not quite daring to enter. Her
scruples seemed to fade, however, all at once.  She gave a suppressed
yell, bolted into the room, and stood tightly clutching the foot-board
of the bed.  Halsey was gradually waking.

"I've seen it," Liddy wailed.  "A woman in white down the hall!"

I paid no attention.

"Halsey," I persevered, "some one is breaking into the house. Get up,
won't you?"

"It isn't our house," he said sleepily.  And then he roused to the
exigency of the occasion.  "All right, Aunt Ray," he said, still
yawning.  "If you'll let me get into something--"

It was all I could do to get Liddy out of the room.  The demands of the
occasion had no influence on her: she had seen the ghost, she
persisted, and she wasn't going into the hall.  But I got her over to
my room at last, more dead than alive, and made her lie down on the bed.

The tappings, which seemed to have ceased for a while, had commenced
again, but they were fainter.  Halsey came over in a few minutes, and
stood listening and trying to locate the sound.

"Give me my revolver, Aunt Ray," he said; and I got it--the one I had
found in the tulip bed--and gave it to him.  He saw Liddy there and
divined at once that Louise was alone.

"You let me attend to this fellow, whoever it is, Aunt Ray, and go to
Louise, will you?  She may be awake and alarmed."

So in spite of her protests, I left Liddy alone and went back to the
east wing.  Perhaps I went a little faster past the yawning blackness
of the circular staircase; and I could hear Halsey creaking cautiously
down the main staircase.  The rapping, or pounding, had ceased, and the
silence was almost painful. And then suddenly, from apparently under my
very feet, there rose a woman's scream, a cry of terror that broke off
as suddenly as it came.  I stood frozen and still.  Every drop of blood
in my body seemed to leave the surface and gather around my heart.  In
the dead silence that followed it throbbed as if it would burst. More
dead than alive, I stumbled into Louise's bedroom.  She was not there!



CHAPTER XVI

IN THE EARLY MORNING

I stood looking at the empty bed.  The coverings had been thrown back,
and Louise's pink silk dressing-gown was gone from the foot, where it
had lain.  The night lamp burned dimly, revealing the emptiness of the
place.  I picked it up, but my hand shook so that I put it down again,
and got somehow to the door.

There were voices in the hall and Gertrude came running toward me.

"What is it?" she cried.  "What was that sound?  Where is Louise?"

"She is not in her room," I said stupidly.  "I think--it was she--who
screamed."

Liddy had joined us now, carrying a light.  We stood huddled together
at the head of the circular staircase, looking down into its shadows.
There was nothing to be seen, and it was absolutely quiet down there.
Then we heard Halsey running up the main staircase.  He came quickly
down the hall to where we were standing.

"There's no one trying to get in.  I thought I heard some one shriek.
Who was it?"

Our stricken faces told him the truth.

"Some one screamed down there," I said.  "And--and Louise is not in her
room."

With a jerk Halsey took the light from Liddy and ran down the circular
staircase.  I followed him, more slowly.  My nerves seemed to be in a
state of paralysis:  I could scarcely step.  At the foot of the stairs
Halsey gave an exclamation and put down the light.

"Aunt Ray," he called sharply.

At the foot of the staircase, huddled in a heap, her head on the lower
stair, was Louise Armstrong.  She lay limp and white, her dressing-gown
dragging loose from one sleeve of her night-dress, and the heavy braid
of her dark hair stretching its length a couple of steps above her
head, as if she had slipped down.

She was not dead: Halsey put her down on the floor, and began to rub
her cold hands, while Gertrude and Liddy ran for stimulants. As for me,
I sat there at the foot of that ghostly staircase--sat, because my
knees wouldn't hold me--and wondered where it would all end.  Louise
was still unconscious, but she was breathing better, and I suggested
that we get her back to bed before she came to.  There was something
grisly and horrible to me, seeing her there in almost the same attitude
and in the same place where we had found her brother's body.  And to
add to the similarity, just then the hall clock, far off, struck
faintly three o'clock.

It was four before Louise was able to talk, and the first rays of dawn
were coming through her windows, which faced the east, before she could
tell us coherently what had occurred.  I give it as she told it.  She
lay propped in bed, and Halsey sat beside her, unrebuffed, and held her
hand while she talked.

"I was not sleeping well," she began, "partly, I think, because I had
slept during the afternoon.  Liddy brought me some hot milk at ten
o'clock and I slept until twelve.  Then I wakened and--I got to
thinking about things, and worrying, so I could not go to sleep.

"I was wondering why I had not heard from Arnold since the--since I saw
him that night at the lodge.  I was afraid he was ill, because--he was
to have done something for me, and he had not come back.  It must have
been three when I heard some one rapping.  I sat up and listened, to be
quite sure, and the rapping kept up.  It was cautious, and I was about
to call Liddy.

"Then suddenly I thought I knew what it was.  The east entrance and the
circular staircase were always used by Arnold when he was out late, and
sometimes, when he forgot his key, he would rap and I would go down and
let him in.  I thought he had come back to see me--I didn't think about
the time, for his hours were always erratic.  But I was afraid I was
too weak to get down the stairs.

"The knocking kept up, and just as I was about to call Liddy, she ran
through the room and out into the hall.  I got up then, feeling weak
and dizzy, and put on my dressing-gown.  If it was Arnold, I knew I
must see him.

"It was very dark everywhere, but, of course, I knew my way.  I felt
along for the stair-rail, and went down as quickly as I could.  The
knocking had stopped, and I was afraid I was too late.  I got to the
foot of the staircase and over to the door on to the east veranda.  I
had never thought of anything but that it was Arnold, until I reached
the door.  It was unlocked and opened about an inch.  Everything was
black: it was perfectly dark outside.  I felt very queer and shaky.
Then I thought perhaps Arnold had used his key; he did--strange things
sometimes, and I turned around.  Just as I reached the foot of the
staircase I thought I heard some one coming.  My nerves were going
anyhow, there in the dark, and I could scarcely stand.  I got up as far
as the third or fourth step; then I felt that some one was coming
toward me on the staircase.  The next instant a hand met mine on the
stair-rail.  Some one brushed past me, and I screamed.  Then I must
have fainted."

That was Louise's story.  There could be no doubt of its truth, and the
thing that made it inexpressibly awful to me was that the poor girl had
crept down to answer the summons of a brother who would never need her
kindly offices again.  Twice now, without apparent cause, some one had
entered the house by means of the east entrance: had apparently gone
his way unhindered through the house, and gone out again as he had
entered.  Had this unknown visitor been there a third time, the night
Arnold Armstrong was murdered?  Or a fourth, the time Mr. Jamieson had
locked some one in the clothes chute?

Sleep was impossible, I think, for any of us.  We dispersed finally to
bathe and dress, leaving Louise little the worse for her experience.
But I determined that before the day was over she must know the true
state of affairs.  Another decision I made, and I put it into execution
immediately after breakfast.  I had one of the unused bedrooms in the
east wing, back along the small corridor, prepared for occupancy, and
from that time on, Alex, the gardener, slept there.  One man in that
barn of a house was an absurdity, with things happening all the time,
and I must say that Alex was as unobjectionable as any one could
possibly have been.

The next morning, also, Halsey and I made an exhaustive examination of
the circular staircase, the small entry at its foot, and the card-room
opening from it.  There was no evidence of anything unusual the night
before, and had we not ourselves heard the rapping noises, I should
have felt that Louise's imagination had run away with her.  The outer
door was closed and locked, and the staircase curved above us, for all
the world like any other staircase.

Halsey, who had never taken seriously my account of the night Liddy and
I were there alone, was grave enough now.  He examined the paneling of
the wainscoting above and below the stairs, evidently looking for a
secret door, and suddenly there flashed into my mind the recollection
of a scrap of paper that Mr. Jamieson had found among Arnold
Armstrong's effects.  As nearly as possible I repeated its contents to
him, while Halsey took them down in a note-book.

"I wish you had told me that before," he said, as he put the memorandum
carefully away.  We found nothing at all in the house, and I expected
little from any examination of the porch and grounds.  But as we opened
the outer door something fell into the entry with a clatter.  It was a
cue from the billiard-room.

Halsey picked it up with an exclamation.

"That's careless enough," he said.  "Some of the servants have been
amusing themselves."

I was far from convinced.  Not one of the servants would go into that
wing at night unless driven by dire necessity.  And a billiard cue!  As
a weapon of either offense or defense it was an absurdity, unless one
accepted Liddy's hypothesis of a ghost, and even then, as Halsey
pointed out, a billiard-playing ghost would be a very modern evolution
of an ancient institution.

That afternoon we, Gertrude, Halsey and I, attended the coroner's
inquest in town.  Doctor Stewart had been summoned also, it transpiring
that in that early Sunday morning, when Gertrude and I had gone to our
rooms, he had been called to view the body.  We went, the four of us,
in the machine, preferring the execrable roads to the matinee train,
with half of Casanova staring at us. And on the way we decided to say
nothing of Louise and her interview with her stepbrother the night he
died.  The girl was in trouble enough as it was.



CHAPTER XVII

A HINT OF SCANDAL

In giving the gist of what happened at the inquest, I have only one
excuse--to recall to the reader the events of the night of Arnold
Armstrong's murder.  Many things had occurred which were not brought
out at the inquest and some things were told there that were new to me.
Altogether, it was a gloomy affair, and the six men in the corner, who
constituted the coroner's jury, were evidently the merest puppets in
the hands of that all-powerful gentleman, the coroner.

Gertrude and I sat well back, with our veils down.  There were a number
of people I knew: Barbara Fitzhugh, in extravagant mourning--she always
went into black on the slightest provocation, because it was
becoming--and Mr. Jarvis, the man who had come over from the Greenwood
Club the night of the murder.  Mr. Harton was there, too, looking
impatient as the inquest dragged, but alive to every particle of
evidence. From a corner Mr. Jamieson was watching the proceedings
intently.

Doctor Stewart was called first.  His evidence was told briefly, and
amounted to this: on the Sunday morning previous, at a quarter before
five, he had been called to the telephone.  The message was from a Mr.
Jarvis, who asked him to come at once to Sunnyside, as there had been
an accident there, and Mr. Arnold Armstrong had been shot.  He had
dressed hastily, gathered up some instruments, and driven to Sunnyside.

He was met by Mr. Jarvis, who took him at once to the east wing. There,
just as he had fallen, was the body of Arnold Armstrong. There was no
need of the instruments: the man was dead.  In answer to the coroner's
question--no, the body had not been moved, save to turn it over.  It
lay at the foot of the circular staircase.  Yes, he believed death had
been instantaneous.  The body was still somewhat warm and rigor mortis
had not set in. It occurred late in cases of sudden death.  No, he
believed the probability of suicide might be eliminated; the wounds
could have been self-inflicted, but with difficulty, and there had been
no weapon found.

The doctor's examination was over, but he hesitated and cleared his
throat.

"Mr. Coroner," he said, "at the risk of taking up valuable time, I
would like to speak of an incident that may or may not throw some light
on this matter."

The audience was alert at once.

"Kindly proceed, Doctor," the coroner said.

"My home is in Englewood, two miles from Casanova," the doctor began.
"In the absence of Doctor Walker, a number of Casanova people have been
consulting me.  A month ago--five weeks, to be exact--a woman whom I
had never seen came to my office.  She was in deep mourning and kept
her veil down, and she brought for examination a child, a boy of six.
The little fellow was ill; it looked like typhoid, and the mother was
frantic.  She wanted a permit to admit the youngster to the Children's
Hospital in town here, where I am a member of the staff, and I gave her
one.  The incident would have escaped me, but for a curious thing.  Two
days before Mr. Armstrong was shot, I was sent for to go to the Country
Club: some one had been struck with a golf-ball that had gone wild.  It
was late when I left--I was on foot, and about a mile from the club, on
the Claysburg road, I met two people.  They were disputing violently,
and I had no difficulty in recognizing Mr. Armstrong.  The woman,
beyond doubt, was the one who had consulted me about the child."

At this hint of scandal, Mrs. Ogden Fitzhugh sat up very straight.
Jamieson was looking slightly skeptical, and the coroner made a note.

"The Children's Hospital, you say, Doctor?" he asked.

"Yes.  But the child, who was entered as Lucien Wallace, was taken away
by his mother two weeks ago.  I have tried to trace them and failed."

All at once I remembered the telegram sent to Louise by some one signed
F. L. W.--presumably Doctor Walker.  Could this veiled woman be the
Nina Carrington of the message?  But it was only idle speculation.  I
had no way of finding out, and the inquest was proceeding.

The report of the coroner's physician came next.  The post-mortem
examination showed that the bullet had entered the chest in the fourth
left intercostal space and had taken an oblique course downward and
backward, piercing both the heart and lungs. The left lung was
collapsed, and the exit point of the ball had been found in the muscles
of the back to the left of the spinal column.  It was improbable that
such a wound had been self-inflicted, and its oblique downward course
pointed to the fact that the shot had been fired from above.  In other
words, as the murdered man had been found dead at the foot of a
staircase, it was probable that the shot had been fired by some one
higher up on the stairs.  There were no marks of powder.  The bullet, a
thirty-eight caliber, had been found in the dead man's clothing, and
was shown to the jury.

Mr. Jarvis was called next, but his testimony amounted to little.

He had been summoned by telephone to Sunnyside, had come over at once
with the steward and Mr. Winthrop, at present out of town. They had
been admitted by the housekeeper, and had found the body lying at the
foot of the staircase.  He had made a search for a weapon, but there
was none around.  The outer entry door in the east wing had been
unfastened and was open about an inch.

I had been growing more and more nervous.  When the coroner called Mr.
John Bailey, the room was filled with suppressed excitement.  Mr.
Jamieson went forward and spoke a few words to the coroner, who nodded.
Then Halsey was called.

"Mr. Innes," the coroner said, "will you tell under what circumstances
you saw Mr. Arnold Armstrong the night he died?"

"I saw him first at the Country Club," Halsey said quietly.  He was
rather pale, but very composed.  "I stopped there with my automobile
for gasolene.  Mr. Armstrong had been playing cards. When I saw him
there, he was coming out of the card-room, talking to Mr. John Bailey."

"The nature of the discussion--was it amicable?"

Halsey hesitated.

"They were having a dispute," he said.  "I asked Mr. Bailey to leave
the club with me and come to Sunnyside over Sunday."

"Isn't it a fact, Mr. Innes, that you took Mr. Bailey away from the
club-house because you were afraid there would be blows?"

"The situation was unpleasant," Halsey said evasively.

"At that time had you any suspicion that the Traders' Bank had been
wrecked?"

"No."

"What occurred next?"

"Mr. Bailey and I talked in the billiard-room until two-thirty."

"And Mr. Arnold Armstrong came there, while you were talking?"

"Yes.  He came about half-past two.  He rapped at the east door, and I
admitted him."

The silence in the room was intense.  Mr. Jamieson's eyes never left
Halsey's face.

"Will you tell us the nature of his errand?"

"He brought a telegram that had come to the club for Mr. Bailey."

"He was sober?"

"Perfectly, at that time.  Not earlier."

"Was not his apparent friendliness a change from his former attitude?"

"Yes.  I did not understand it."

"How long did he stay?"

"About five minutes.  Then he left, by the east entrance."

"What occurred then?"

"We talked for a few minutes, discussing a plan Mr. Bailey had in mind.
Then I went to the stables, where I kept my car, and got it out."

"Leaving Mr. Bailey alone in the billiard-room?"

Halsey hesitated.

"My sister was there?"

Mrs. Ogden Fitzhugh had the courage to turn and eye Gertrude through
her lorgnon.

"And then?"

"I took the car along the lower road, not to disturb the household.
Mr. Bailey came down across the lawn, through the hedge, and got into
the car on the road."

"Then you know nothing of Mr. Armstrong's movements after he left the
house?"

"Nothing.  I read of his death Monday evening for the first time."

"Mr. Bailey did not see him on his way across the lawn?"

"I think not.  If he had seen him he would have spoken of it."

"Thank you.  That is all.  Miss Gertrude Innes."

Gertrude's replies were fully as concise as Halsey's.  Mrs. Fitzhugh
subjected her to a close inspection, commencing with her hat and ending
with her shoes.  I flatter myself she found nothing wrong with either
her gown or her manner, but poor Gertrude's testimony was the reverse
of comforting.  She had been summoned, she said, by her brother, after
Mr. Armstrong had gone.

She had waited in the billiard-room with Mr. Bailey, until the
automobile had been ready.  Then she had locked the door at the foot of
the staircase, and, taking a lamp, had accompanied Mr. Bailey to the
main entrance of the house, and had watched him cross the lawn.
Instead of going at once to her room, she had gone back to the
billiard-room for something which had been left there.  The card-room
and billiard-room were in darkness.  She had groped around, found the
article she was looking for, and was on the point of returning to her
room, when she had heard some one fumbling at the lock at the east
outer door.  She had thought it was probably her brother, and had been
about to go to the door, when she heard it open.  Almost immediately
there was a shot, and she had run panic-stricken through the
drawing-room and had roused the house.

"You heard no other sound?" the coroner asked.  "There was no one with
Mr. Armstrong when he entered?"

"It was perfectly dark.  There were no voices and I heard nothing.
There was just the opening of the door, the shot, and the sound of
somebody falling."

"Then, while you went through the drawing-room and up-stairs to alarm
the household, the criminal, whoever it was, could have escaped by the
east door?"

"Yes."

"Thank you.  That will do."

I flatter myself that the coroner got little enough out of me.  I saw
Mr. Jamieson smiling to himself, and the coroner gave me up, after a
time.  I admitted I had found the body, said I had not known who it was
until Mr. Jarvis told me, and ended by looking up at Barbara Fitzhugh
and saying that in renting the house I had not expected to be involved
in any family scandal.  At which she turned purple.

The verdict was that Arnold Armstrong had met his death at the hands of
a person or persons unknown, and we all prepared to leave.  Barbara
Fitzhugh flounced out without waiting to speak to me, but Mr. Harton
came up, as I knew he would.

"You have decided to give up the house, I hope, Miss Innes," he said.
"Mrs. Armstrong has wired me again."

"I am not going to give it up," I maintained, "until I understand some
things that are puzzling me.  The day that the murderer is discovered,
I will leave."

"Then, judging by what I have heard, you will be back in the city very
soon," he said.  And I knew that he suspected the discredited cashier
of the Traders' Bank.

Mr. Jamieson came up to me as I was about to leave the coroner's office.

"How is your patient?" he asked with his odd little smile.

"I have no patient," I replied, startled.

"I will put it in a different way, then.  How is Miss Armstrong?"

"She--she is doing very well," I stammered.

"Good," cheerfully.  "And our ghost?  Is it laid?"

"Mr. Jamieson," I said suddenly, "I wish you would do one thing: I wish
you would come to Sunnyside and spend a few days there. The ghost is
not laid.  I want you to spend one night at least watching the circular
staircase.  The murder of Arnold Armstrong was a beginning, not an end."

He looked serious.

"Perhaps I can do it," he said.  "I have been doing something else,
but--well, I will come out to-night."

We were very silent during the trip back to Sunnyside.  I watched
Gertrude closely and somewhat sadly.  To me there was one glaring flaw
in her story, and it seemed to stand out for every one to see.  Arnold
Armstrong had had no key, and yet she said she had locked the east
door.  He must have been admitted from within the house; over and over
I repeated it to myself.

That night, as gently as I could, I told Louise the story of her
stepbrother's death.  She sat in her big, pillow-filled chair, and
heard me through without interruption.  It was clear that she was
shocked beyond words: if I had hoped to learn anything from her
expression, I had failed.  She was as much in the dark as we were.



CHAPTER XVIII

A HOLE IN THE WALL

My taking the detective out to Sunnyside raised an unexpected storm of
protest from Gertrude and Halsey.  I was not prepared for it, and I
scarcely knew how to account for it.  To me Mr. Jamieson was far less
formidable under my eyes where I knew what he was doing, than he was of
in the city, twisting circumstances and motives to suit himself and
learning what he wished to know, about events at Sunnyside, in some
occult way.  I was glad enough to have him there, when excitements
began to come thick and fast.

A new element was about to enter into affairs: Monday, or Tuesday at
the latest, would find Doctor Walker back in his green and white house
in the village, and Louise's attitude to him in the immediate future
would signify Halsey's happiness or wretchedness, as it might turn out.
Then, too, the return of her mother would mean, of course, that she
would have to leave us, and I had become greatly attached to her.

From the day Mr. Jamieson came to Sunnyside there was a subtle change
in Gertrude's manner to me.  It was elusive, difficult to analyze, but
it was there.  She was no longer frank with me, although I think her
affection never wavered.  At the time I laid the change to the fact
that I had forbidden all communication with John Bailey, and had
refused to acknowledge any engagement between the two.  Gertrude spent
much of her time wandering through the grounds, or taking long
cross-country walks.  Halsey played golf at the Country Club day after
day, and after Louise left, as she did the following week, Mr. Jamieson
and I were much together.  He played a fair game of cribbage, but he
cheated at solitaire.

The night the detective arrived, Saturday, I had a talk with him.

I told him of the experience Louise Armstrong had had the night before,
on the circular staircase, and about the man who had so frightened
Rosie on the drive.  I saw that he thought the information was
important, and to my suggestion that we put an additional lock on the
east wing door he opposed a strong negative.

"I think it probable," he said, "that our visitor will be back again,
and the thing to do is to leave things exactly as they are, to avoid
rousing suspicion.  Then I can watch for at least a part of each night
and probably Mr. Innes will help us out.  I would say as little to
Thomas as possible.  The old man knows more than he is willing to
admit."

I suggested that Alex, the gardener, would probably be willing to help,
and Mr. Jamieson undertook to make the arrangement.  For one night,
however, Mr. Jamieson preferred to watch alone. Apparently nothing
occurred.  The detective sat in absolute darkness on the lower step of
the stairs, dozing, he said afterwards, now and then.  Nothing could
pass him in either direction, and the door in the morning remained as
securely fastened as it had been the night before.  And yet one of the
most inexplicable occurrences of the whole affair took place that very
night.

Liddy came to my room on Sunday morning with a face as long as the
moral law.  She laid out my things as usual, but I missed her customary
garrulousness.  I was not regaled with the new cook's extravagance as
to eggs, and she even forbore to mention "that Jamieson," on whose
arrival she had looked with silent disfavor.

"What's the matter, Liddy?" I asked at last.  "Didn't you sleep last
night?"

"No, ma'm," she said stiffly.

"Did you have two cups of coffee at your dinner?" I inquired.

"No, ma'm," indignantly.

I sat up and almost upset my hot water--I always take a cup of hot
water with a pinch of salt, before I get up.  It tones the stomach.

"Liddy Allen," I said, "stop combing that switch and tell me what is
wrong with you."

Liddy heaved a sigh.

"Girl and woman," she said, "I've been with you twenty-five years, Miss
Rachel, through good temper and bad--" the idea! and what I have taken
from her in the way of sulks!--"but I guess I can't stand it any
longer.  My trunk's packed."

"Who packed it?" I asked, expecting from her tone to be told she had
wakened to find it done by some ghostly hand.

"I did; Miss Rachel, you won't believe me when I tell you this house is
haunted.  Who was it fell down the clothes chute? Who was it scared
Miss Louise almost into her grave?"

"I'm doing my best to find out," I said.  "What in the world are you
driving at?"  She drew a long breath.

"There is a hole in the trunk-room wall, dug out since last night.
It's big enough to put your head in, and the plaster's all over the
place."

"Nonsense!" I said.  "Plaster is always falling."

But Liddy clenched that.

"Just ask Alex," she said.  "When he put the new cook's trunk there
last night the wall was as smooth as this.  This morning it's dug out,
and there's plaster on the cook's trunk.  Miss Rachel, you can get a
dozen detectives and put one on every stair in the house, and you'll
never catch anything.  There's some things you can't handcuff."

Liddy was right.  As soon as I could, I went up to the trunk-room,
which was directly over my bedroom.  The plan of the upper story of the
house was like that of the second floor, in the main.  One end,
however, over the east wing, had been left only roughly finished, the
intention having been to convert it into a ball-room at some future
time.  The maids' rooms, trunk-room, and various store-rooms, including
a large airy linen-room, opened from a long corridor, like that on the
second floor.  And in the trunk-room, as Liddy had said, was a fresh
break in the plaster.

Not only in the plaster, but through the lathing, the aperture
extended.  I reached into the opening, and three feet away, perhaps, I
could touch the bricks of the partition wall.  For some reason, the
architect, in building the house, had left a space there that struck
me, even in the surprise of the discovery, as an excellent place for a
conflagration to gain headway.

"You are sure the hole was not here yesterday?" I asked Liddy, whose
expression was a mixture of satisfaction and alarm.  In answer she
pointed to the new cook's trunk--that necessary adjunct of the
migratory domestic.  The top was covered with fine white plaster, as
was the floor.  But there were no large pieces of mortar lying
around--no bits of lathing.  When I mentioned this to Liddy she merely
raised her eyebrows.  Being quite confident that the gap was of unholy
origin, she did not concern herself with such trifles as a bit of
mortar and lath.  No doubt they were even then heaped neatly on a
gravestone in the Casanova churchyard!

I brought Mr. Jamieson up to see the hole in the wall, directly after
breakfast.  His expression was very odd when he looked at it, and the
first thing he did was to try to discover what object, if any, such a
hole could have.  He got a piece of candle, and by enlarging the
aperture a little was able to examine what lay beyond.  The result was
nil.  The trunk-room, although heated by steam heat, like the rest of
the house, boasted of a fireplace and mantel as well.  The opening had
been made between the flue and the outer wall of the house.  There was
revealed, however, on inspection, only the brick of the chimney on one
side and the outer wall of the house on the other; in depth the space
extended only to the flooring.  The breach had been made about four
feet from the floor, and inside were all the missing bits of plaster.
It had been a methodical ghost.

It was very much of a disappointment.  I had expected a secret room, at
the very least, and I think even Mr. Jamieson had fancied he might at
last have a clue to the mystery.  There was evidently nothing more to
be discovered: Liddy reported that everything was serene among the
servants, and that none of them had been disturbed by the noise.  The
maddening thing, however, was that the nightly visitor had evidently
more than one way of gaining access to the house, and we made
arrangements to redouble our vigilance as to windows and doors that
night.

Halsey was inclined to pooh-pooh the whole affair.  He said a break in
the plaster might have occurred months ago and gone unnoticed, and that
the dust had probably been stirred up the day before.  After all, we
had to let it go at that, but we put in an uncomfortable Sunday.
Gertrude went to church, and Halsey took a long walk in the morning.
Louise was able to sit up, and she allowed Halsey and Liddy to assist
her down-stairs late in the afternoon.  The east veranda was shady,
green with vines and palms, cheerful with cushions and lounging chairs.
We put Louise in a steamer chair, and she sat there passively enough,
her hands clasped in her lap.

We were very silent.  Halsey sat on the rail with a pipe, openly
watching Louise, as she looked broodingly across the valley to the
hills.  There was something baffling in the girl's eyes; and gradually
Halsey's boyish features lost their glow at seeing her about again, and
settled into grim lines.  He was like his father just then.

We sat until late afternoon, Halsey growing more and more moody.
Shortly before six, he got up and went into the house, and in a few
minutes he came out and called me to the telephone.  It was Anna
Whitcomb, in town, and she kept me for twenty minutes, telling me the
children had had the measles, and how Madame Sweeny had botched her new
gown.

When I finished, Liddy was behind me, her mouth a thin line.

"I wish you would try to look cheerful, Liddy," I groaned, "your face
would sour milk."  But Liddy seldom replied to my gibes. She folded her
lips a little tighter.

"He called her up," she said oracularly, "he called her up, and asked
her to keep you at the telephone, so he could talk to Miss Louise. A
THANKLESS CHILD IS SHARPER THAN A SERPENT'S TOOTH."

"Nonsense!" I said bruskly.  "I might have known enough to leave them.
It's a long time since you and I were in love, Liddy, and--we forget."

Liddy sniffed.

"No man ever made a fool of me," she replied virtuously.

"Well, something did," I retorted.



CHAPTER XIX

CONCERNING THOMAS

"Mr. Jamieson," I said, when we found ourselves alone after dinner that
night, "the inquest yesterday seemed to me the merest recapitulation of
things that were already known.  It developed nothing new beyond the
story of Doctor Stewart's, and that was volunteered."

"An inquest is only a necessary formality, Miss Innes," he replied.
"Unless a crime is committed in the open, the inquest does nothing
beyond getting evidence from witnesses while events are still in their
minds.  The police step in later.  You and I both know how many
important things never transpired.  For instance: the dead man had no
key, and yet Miss Gertrude testified to a fumbling at the lock, and
then the opening of the door.  The piece of evidence you mention,
Doctor Stewart's story, is one of those things we have to take
cautiously: the doctor has a patient who wears black and does not raise
her veil. Why, it is the typical mysterious lady!  Then the good doctor
comes across Arnold Armstrong, who was a graceless scamp--de
mortuis--what's the rest of it?--and he is quarreling with a lady in
black.  Behold, says the doctor, they are one and the same."

"Why was Mr. Bailey not present at the inquest?"

The detective's expression was peculiar.

"Because his physician testified that he is ill, and unable to leave
his bed."

"Ill!" I exclaimed.  "Why, neither Halsey nor Gertrude has told me
that."

"There are more things than that, Miss Innes, that are puzzling. Bailey
gives the impression that he knew nothing of the crash at the bank
until he read it in the paper Monday night, and that he went back and
surrendered himself immediately.  I do not believe it.  Jonas, the
watchman at the Traders' Bank, tells a different story.  He says that
on the Thursday night before, about eight-thirty, Bailey went back to
the bank.  Jonas admitted him, and he says the cashier was in a state
almost of collapse.  Bailey worked until midnight, then he closed the
vault and went away. The occurrence was so unusual that the watchman
pondered over it an the rest of the night.  What did Bailey do when he
went back to the Knickerbocker apartments that night?  He packed a
suit-case ready for instant departure.  But he held off too long; he
waited for something.  My personal opinion is that he waited to see
Miss Gertrude before flying from the country. Then, when he had shot
down Arnold Armstrong that night, he had to choose between two evils.
He did the thing that would immediately turn public opinion in his
favor, and surrendered himself, as an innocent man.  The strongest
thing against him is his preparation for flight, and his deciding to
come back after the murder of Arnold Armstrong.  He was shrewd enough
to disarm suspicion as to the graver charge?"

The evening dragged along slowly.  Mrs. Watson came to my bedroom
before I went to bed and asked if I had any arnica.  She showed me a
badly swollen hand, with reddish streaks running toward the elbow; she
said it was the hand she had hurt the night of the murder a week
before, and that she had not slept well since.  It looked to me as if
it might be serious, and I told her to let Doctor Stewart see it.

The next morning Mrs. Watson went up to town on the eleven train, and
was admitted to the Charity Hospital.  She was suffering from
blood-poisoning.  I fully meant to go up and see her there, but other
things drove her entirely from my mind.  I telephoned to the hospital
that day, however, and ordered a private room for her, and whatever
comforts she might be allowed.

Mrs. Armstrong arrived Monday evening with her husband's body, and the
services were set for the next day.  The house on Chestnut Street, in
town, had been opened, and Tuesday morning Louise left us to go home.
She sent for me before she went, and I saw she had been crying.

"How can I thank you, Miss Innes?" she said.  "You have taken me on
faith, and--you have not asked me any questions.  Some time, perhaps, I
can tell you; and when that time comes, you will all despise
me,--Halsey, too."

I tried to tell her how glad I was to have had her but there was
something else she wanted to say.  She said it finally, when she had
bade a constrained good-by to Halsey and the car was waiting at the
door.

"Miss Innes," she said in a low tone, "if they--if there is any attempt
made to--to have you give up the house, do it, if you possibly can.  I
am afraid--to have you stay."

That was all.  Gertrude went into town with her and saw her safely
home.  She reported a decided coolness in the greeting between Louise
and her mother, and that Doctor Walker was there, apparently in charge
of the arrangements for the funeral.  Halsey disappeared shortly after
Louise left and came home about nine that night, muddy and tired.  As
for Thomas, he went around dejected and sad, and I saw the detective
watching him closely at dinner.  Even now I wonder--what did Thomas
know?  What did he suspect?

At ten o'clock the household had settled down for the night. Liddy, who
was taking Mrs. Watson's place, had finished examining the tea-towels
and the corners of the shelves in the cooling-room, and had gone to
bed.  Alex, the gardener, had gone heavily up the circular staircase to
his room, and Mr. Jamieson was examining the locks of the windows.
Halsey dropped into a chair in the living-room, and stared moodily
ahead.  Once he roused.

"What sort of a looking chap is that Walker, Gertrude?" he asked!

"Rather tall, very dark, smooth-shaven.  Not bad looking," Gertrude
said, putting down the book she had been pretending to read.  Halsey
kicked a taboret viciously.

"Lovely place this village must be in the winter," he said
irrelevantly.  "A girl would be buried alive here."

It was then some one rapped at the knocker on the heavy front door.
Halsey got up leisurely and opened it, admitting Warner. He was out of
breath from running, and he looked half abashed.

"I am sorry to disturb you," he said.  "But I didn't know what else to
do.  It's about Thomas."

"What about Thomas?" I asked.  Mr. Jamieson had come into the hall and
we all stared at Warner.

"He's acting queer," Warner explained.  "He's sitting down there on the
edge of the porch, and he says he has seen a ghost.  The old man looks
bad, too; he can scarcely speak."

"He's as full of superstition as an egg is of meat," I said. "Halsey,
bring some whisky and we will all go down."

No one moved to get the whisky, from which I judged there were three
pocket flasks ready for emergency.  Gertrude threw a shawl around my
shoulders, and we all started down over the hill: I had made so many
nocturnal excursions around the place that I knew my way perfectly.
But Thomas was not on the veranda, nor was he inside the house.  The
men exchanged significant glances, and Warner got a lantern.

"He can't have gone far," he said.  "He was trembling so that he
couldn't stand, when I left."

Jamieson and Halsey together made the round of the lodge, occasionally
calling the old man by name.  But there was no response.  No Thomas
came, bowing and showing his white teeth through the darkness.  I began
to be vaguely uneasy, for the first time.  Gertrude, who was never
nervous in the dark, went alone down the drive to the gate, and stood
there, looking along the yellowish line of the road, while I waited on
the tiny veranda.

Warner was puzzled.  He came around to the edge of the veranda and
stood looking at it as if it ought to know and explain.

"He might have stumbled into the house," he said, "but he could not
have climbed the stairs.  Anyhow, he's not inside or outside, that I
can see."  The other members of the party had come back now, and no one
had found any trace of the old man.  His pipe, still warm, rested on
the edge of the rail, and inside on the table his old gray hat showed
that its owner had not gone far.

He was not far, after all.  From the table my eyes traveled around the
room, and stopped at the door of a closet.  I hardly know what impulse
moved me, but I went in and turned the knob. It burst open with the
impetus of a weight behind it, and something fell partly forward in a
heap on the floor.  It was Thomas--Thomas without a mark of injury on
him, and dead.



CHAPTER XX

DOCTOR WALKER'S WARNING

Warner was on his knees in a moment, fumbling at the old man's collar
to loosen it, but Halsey caught his hand.

"Let him alone?" he said.  "You can't help him; he is dead."

We stood there, each avoiding the other's eyes; we spoke low and
reverently in the presence of death, and we tacitly avoided any mention
of the suspicion that was in every mind.  When Mr. Jamieson had
finished his cursory examination, he got up and dusted the knees of his
trousers.

"There is no sign of injury," he said, and I know I, for one, drew a
long breath of relief.  "From what Warner says and from his hiding in
the closet, I should say he was scared to death. Fright and a weak
heart, together."

"But what could have done it?" Gertrude asked.  "He was all right this
evening at dinner.  Warner, what did he say when you found him on the
porch?"

Warner looked shaken: his honest, boyish face was colorless.

"Just what I told you, Miss Innes.  He'd been reading the paper
down-stairs; I had put up the car, and, feeling sleepy, I came down to
the lodge to go to bed.  As I went up-stairs, Thomas put down the paper
and, taking his pipe, went out on the porch. Then I heard an
exclamation from him."

"What did he say?" demanded Jamieson.

"I couldn't hear, but his voice was strange; it sounded startled.  I
waited for him to call out again, but he did not, so I went
down-stairs.  He was sitting on the porch step, looking straight ahead,
as if he saw something among the trees across the road.  And he kept
mumbling about having seen a ghost.  He looked queer, and I tried to
get him inside, but he wouldn't move.  Then I thought I'd better go up
to the house."

"Didn't he say anything else you could understand?" I asked.

"He said something about the grave giving up its dead."

Mr. Jamieson was going through the old man's pockets, and Gertrude was
composing his arms, folding them across his white shirt-bosom, always
so spotless.

Mr. Jamieson looked up at me.

"What was that you said to me, Miss Innes, about the murder at the
house being a beginning and not an end?  By jove, I believe you were
right!"

In the course of his investigations the detective had come to the inner
pocket of the dead butler's black coat.  Here he found some things that
interested him.  One was a small flat key, with a red cord tied to it,
and the other was a bit of white paper, on which was written something
in Thomas' cramped hand.  Mr. Jamieson read it: then he gave it to me.
It was an address in fresh ink--

            LUCIEN WALLACE, 14 Elm Street, Richfield.

As the card went around, I think both the detective and I watched for
any possible effect it might have, but, beyond perplexity, there seemed
to be none.

"Richfield!" Gertrude exclaimed.  "Why, Elm Street is the main street;
don't you remember, Halsey?"

"Lucien Wallace!" Halsey said.  "That is the child Stewart spoke of at
the inquest."

Warner, with his mechanic's instinct, had reached for the key. What he
said was not a surprise.

"Yale lock," he said.  "Probably a key to the east entry."

There was no reason why Thomas, an old and trusted servant, should not
have had a key to that particular door, although the servants' entry
was in the west wing.  But I had not known of this key, and it opened
up a new field of conjecture.  Just now, however, there were many
things to be attended to, and, leaving Warner with the body, we all
went back to the house.  Mr. Jamieson walked with me, while Halsey and
Gertrude followed.

"I suppose I shall have to notify the Armstrongs," I said.  "They will
know if Thomas had any people and how to reach them.  Of course, I
expect to defray the expenses of the funeral, but his relatives must be
found.  What do you think frightened him, Mr. Jamieson?"

"It is hard to say," he replied slowly, "but I think we may be certain
it was fright, and that he was hiding from something.  I am sorry in
more than one way:  I have always believed that Thomas knew something,
or suspected something, that he would not tell.  Do you know how much
money there was in that worn-out wallet of his?  Nearly a hundred
dollars!  Almost two months' wages--and yet those darkies seldom have a
penny.  Well--what Thomas knew will be buried with him."

Halsey suggested that the grounds be searched, but Mr. Jamieson vetoed
the suggestion.

"You would find nothing," he said.  "A person clever enough to get into
Sunnyside and tear a hole in the wall, while I watched down-stairs, is
not to be found by going around the shrubbery with a lantern."

With the death of Thomas, I felt that a climax had come in affairs at
Sunnyside.  The night that followed was quiet enough. Halsey watched at
the foot of the staircase, and a complicated system of bolts on the
other doors seemed to be effectual.

Once in the night I wakened and thought I heard the tapping again.  But
all was quiet, and I had reached the stage where I refused to be
disturbed for minor occurrences.

The Armstrongs were notified of Thomas' death, and I had my first
interview with Doctor Walker as a result.  He came up early the next
morning, just as we finished breakfast, in a professional looking car
with a black hood.  I found him striding up and down the living-room,
and, in spite of my preconceived dislike, I had to admit that the man
was presentable.  A big fellow he was, tall and dark, as Gertrude had
said, smooth-shaven and erect, with prominent features and a square
jaw.  He was painfully spruce in his appearance, and his manner was
almost obtrusively polite.

"I must make a double excuse for this early visit, Miss Innes," he said
as he sat down.  The chair was lower than he expected, and his dignity
required collecting before he went on.  "My professional duties are
urgent and long neglected, and"--a fall to the every-day
manner--"something must be done about that body."

"Yes," I said, sitting on the edge of my chair.  "I merely wished the
address of Thomas' people.  You might have telephoned, if you were
busy."

He smiled.

"I wished to see you about something else," he said.  "As for Thomas,
it is Mrs. Armstrong's wish that you would allow her to attend to the
expense.  About his relatives, I have already notified his brother, in
the village.  It was heart disease, I think.  Thomas always had a bad
heart."

"Heart disease and fright," I said, still on the edge of my chair.  But
the doctor had no intention of leaving.

"I understand you have a ghost up here, and that you have the house
filled with detectives to exorcise it," he said.

For some reason I felt I was being "pumped," as Halsey says. "You have
been misinformed," I replied.

"What, no ghost, no detectives!" he said, still with his smile. "What a
disappointment to the village!"

I resented his attempt at playfulness.  It had been anything but a joke
to us.

"Doctor Walker," I said tartly, "I fail to see any humor in the
situation.  Since I came here, one man has been shot, and another one
has died from shock.  There have been intruders in the house, and
strange noises.  If that is funny, there is something wrong with my
sense of humor."

"You miss the point," he said, still good-naturedly.  "The thing that
is funny, to me, is that you insist on remaining here, under the
circumstances.  I should think nothing would keep you."

"You are mistaken.  Everything that occurs only confirms my resolution
to stay until the mystery is cleared."

"I have a message for you, Miss Innes," he said, rising at last.  "Mrs.
Armstrong asked me to thank you for your kindness to Louise, whose
whim, occurring at the time it did, put her to great inconvenience.
Also--and this is a delicate matter--she asked me to appeal to your
natural sympathy for her, at this time, and to ask you if you will not
reconsider your decision about the house.  Sunnyside is her home; she
loves it dearly, and just now she wishes to retire here for quiet and
peace."

"She must have had a change of heart," I said, ungraciously enough.
"Louise told me her mother despised the place.  Besides, this is no
place for quiet and peace just now.  Anyhow, doctor, while I don't care
to force an issue, I shall certainly remain here, for a time at least."

"For how long?" he asked.

"My lease is for six months.  I shall stay until some explanation is
found for certain things.  My own family is implicated now, and I shall
do everything to clear the mystery of Arnold Armstrong's murder."

The doctor stood looking down, slapping his gloves thoughtfully against
the palm of a well-looked-after hand.

"You say there have been intruders in the house?" he asked. "You are
sure of that, Miss Innes?"

"Certain."

"In what part?"

"In the east wing."

"Can you tell me when these intrusions occurred, and what the purpose
seemed to be?  Was it robbery?"

"No," I said decidedly.  "As to time, once on Friday night a week ago,
again the following night, when Arnold Armstrong was murdered, and
again last Friday night."

The doctor looked serious.  He seemed to be debating some question in
his mind, and to reach a decision.

"Miss Innes," he said, "I am in a peculiar position; I understand your
attitude, of course; but--do you think you are wise?  Ever since you
have come here there have been hostile demonstrations against you and
your family.  I'm not a croaker, but--take a warning.  Leave before
anything occurs that will cause you a lifelong regret."

"I am willing to take the responsibility," I said coldly.

I think he gave me up then as a poor proposition.  He asked to be shown
where Arnold Armstrong's body had been found, and I took him there.  He
scrutinized the whole place carefully, examining the stairs and the
lock.  When he had taken a formal farewell I was confident of one
thing.  Doctor Walker would do anything he could to get me away from
Sunnyside.



CHAPTER XXI

FOURTEEN ELM STREET

It was Monday evening when we found the body of poor old Thomas. Monday
night had been uneventful; things were quiet at the house and the
peculiar circumstances of the old man's death had been carefully kept
from the servants.  Rosie took charge of the dining-room and pantry, in
the absence of a butler, and, except for the warning of the Casanova
doctor, everything breathed of peace.

Affairs at the Traders' Bank were progressing slowly.  The failure had
hit small stock-holders very hard, the minister of the little Methodist
chapel in Casanova among them.  He had received as a legacy from an
uncle a few shares of stock in the Traders' Bank, and now his joy was
turned to bitterness: he had to sacrifice everything he had in the
world, and his feeling against Paul Armstrong, dead, as he was, must
have been bitter in the extreme.  He was asked to officiate at the
simple services when the dead banker's body was interred in Casanova
churchyard, but the good man providentially took cold, and a substitute
was called in.

A few days after the services he called to see me, a kind-faced little
man, in a very bad frock-coat and laundered tie.  I think he was
uncertain as to my connection with the Armstrong family, and dubious
whether I considered Mr. Armstrong's taking away a matter for
condolence or congratulation.  He was not long in doubt.

I liked the little man.  He had known Thomas well, and had promised to
officiate at the services in the rickety African Zion Church.  He told
me more of himself than he knew, and before he left, I astonished
him--and myself, I admit--by promising a new carpet for his church.  He
was much affected, and I gathered that he had yearned over his ragged
chapel as a mother over a half-clothed child.

"You are laying up treasure, Miss Innes," he said brokenly, "where
neither moth nor rust corrupt, nor thieves break through and steal."

"It is certainly a safer place than Sunnyside," I admitted.  And the
thought of the carpet permitted him to smile.  He stood just inside the
doorway, looking from the luxury of the house to the beauty of the view.

"The rich ought to be good," he said wistfully.  "They have so much
that is beautiful, and beauty is ennobling.  And yet--while I ought to
say nothing but good of the dead--Mr. Armstrong saw nothing of this
fair prospect.  To him these trees and lawns were not the work of God.
They were property, at so much an acre.  He loved money, Miss Innes.
He offered up everything to his golden calf.  Not power, not ambition,
was his fetish: it was money." Then he dropped his pulpit manner, and,
turning to me with his engaging smile:  "In spite of all this luxury,"
he said, "the country people here have a saying that Mr. Paul Armstrong
could sit on a dollar and see all around it.  Unlike the summer people,
he gave neither to the poor nor to the church.  He loved money for its
own sake."

"And there are no pockets in shrouds!" I said cynically.

I sent him home in the car, with a bunch of hot-house roses for his
wife, and he was quite overwhelmed.  As for me, I had a generous glow
that was cheap at the price of a church carpet.  I received less
gratification--and less gratitude--when I presented the new silver
communion set to St. Barnabas.

I had a great many things to think about in those days.  I made out a
list of questions and possible answers, but I seemed only to be working
around in a circle.  I always ended where I began. The list was
something like this:


Who had entered the house the night before the murder?

Thomas claimed it was Mr. Bailey, whom he had seen on the foot-path,
and who owned the pearl cuff-link.

Why did Arnold Armstrong come back after he had left the house the
night he was killed?

No answer.  Was it on the mission Louise had mentioned?

Who admitted him?

Gertrude said she had locked the east entry.  There was no key on the
dead man or in the door.  He must have been admitted from within.

Who had been locked in the clothes chute?

Some one unfamiliar with the house, evidently.  Only two people missing
from the household, Rosie and Gertrude.  Rosie had been at the lodge.
Therefore--but was it Gertrude?  Might it not have been the mysterious
intruder again?

Who had accosted Rosie on the drive?

Again--perhaps the nightly visitor.  It seemed more likely some one who
suspected a secret at the lodge.  Was Louise under surveillance?

Who had passed Louise on the circular staircase?

Could it have been Thomas?  The key to the east entry made this a
possibility.  But why was he there, if it were indeed he?

Who had made the hole in the trunk-room wall?

It was not vandalism.  It had been done quietly, and with deliberate
purpose.  If I had only known how to read the purpose of that gaping
aperture what I might have saved in anxiety and mental strain!

Why had Louise left her people and come home to hide at the lodge?

There was no answer, as yet, to this, or to the next questions.

Why did both she and Doctor Walker warn us away from the house?

Who was Lucien Wallace?

What did Thomas see in the shadows the night he died?

What was the meaning of the subtle change in Gertrude?

Was Jack Bailey an accomplice or a victim in the looting of the
Traders' Bank?

What all-powerful reason made Louise determine to marry Doctor Walker?


The examiners were still working on the books of the Traders' Bank, and
it was probable that several weeks would elapse before everything was
cleared up.  The firm of expert accountants who had examined the books
some two months before testified that every bond, every piece of
valuable paper, was there at that time.  It had been shortly after
their examination that the president, who had been in bad health, had
gone to California. Mr. Bailey was still ill at the Knickerbocker, and
in this, as in other ways, Gertrude's conduct puzzled me.  She seemed
indifferent, refused to discuss matters pertaining to the bank, and
never, to my knowledge, either wrote to him or went to see him.

Gradually I came to the conclusion that Gertrude, with the rest of the
world, believed her lover guilty, and--although I believed it myself,
for that matter--I was irritated by her indifference. Girls in my day
did not meekly accept the public's verdict as to the man they loved.

But presently something occurred that made me think that under
Gertrude's surface calm there was a seething flood of emotions.

Tuesday morning the detective made a careful search of the grounds, but
he found nothing.  In the afternoon he disappeared, and it was late
that night when he came home.  He said he would have to go back to the
city the following day, and arranged with Halsey and Alex to guard the
house.

Liddy came to me on Wednesday morning with her black silk apron held up
like a bag, and her eyes big with virtuous wrath.  It was the day of
Thomas' funeral in the village, and Alex and I were in the conservatory
cutting flowers for the old man's casket.  Liddy is never so happy as
when she is making herself wretched, and now her mouth drooped while
her eyes were triumphant.

"I always said there were plenty of things going on here, right under
our noses, that we couldn't see," she said, holding out her apron.

"I don't see with my nose," I remarked.  "What have you got there?"

Liddy pushed aside a half-dozen geranium pots, and in the space thus
cleared she dumped the contents of her apron--a handful of tiny bits of
paper.  Alex had stepped back, but I saw him watching her curiously.

"Wait a moment, Liddy," I said.  "You have been going through the
library paper-basket again!"

Liddy was arranging her bits of paper with the skill of long practice
and paid no attention.

"Did it ever occur to you," I went on, putting my hand over the scraps,
"that when people tear up their correspondence, it is for the express
purpose of keeping it from being read?"

"If they wasn't ashamed of it they wouldn't take so much trouble, Miss
Rachel," Liddy said oracularly.  "More than that, with things happening
every day, I consider it my duty.  If you don't read and act on this, I
shall give it to that Jamieson, and I'll venture he'll not go back to
the city to-day."

That decided me.  If the scraps had anything to do with the mystery
ordinary conventions had no value.  So Liddy arranged the scraps, like
working out one of the puzzle-pictures children play with, and she did
it with much the same eagerness.  When it was finished she stepped
aside while I read it.

"Wednesday night, nine o'clock.  Bridge," I real aloud.  Then, aware of
Alex's stare, I turned on Liddy.

"Some one is to play bridge to-night at nine o'clock," I said. "Is that
your business, or mine?"

Liddy was aggrieved.  She was about to reply when I scooped up the
pieces and left the conservatory.

"Now then," I said, when we got outside, "will you tell me why you
choose to take Alex into your confidence?  He's no fool.  Do you
suppose he thinks any one in this house is going to play bridge
to-night at nine o'clock, by appointment!  I suppose you have shown it
in the kitchen, and instead of my being able to slip down to the bridge
to-night quietly, and see who is there, the whole household will be
going in a procession."

"Nobody knows it," Liddy said humbly.  "I found it in the basket in
Miss Gertrude's dressing-room.  Look at the back of the sheet."  I
turned over some of the scraps, and, sure enough, it was a blank
deposit slip from the Traders' Bank.  So Gertrude was going to meet
Jack Bailey that night by the bridge!  And I had thought he was ill!
It hardly seemed like the action of an innocent man--this avoidance of
daylight, and of his fiancee's people.  I decided to make certain,
however, by going to the bridge that night.

After luncheon Mr. Jamieson suggested that I go with him to Richfield,
and I consented.

"I am inclined to place more faith in Doctor Stewart's story," he said,
"since I found that scrap in old Thomas' pocket.  It bears out the
statement that the woman with the child, and the woman who quarreled
with Armstrong, are the same.  It looks as if Thomas had stumbled on to
some affair which was more or less discreditable to the dead man, and,
with a certain loyalty to the family, had kept it to himself.  Then,
you see, your story about the woman at the card-room window begins to
mean something.  It is the nearest approach to anything tangible that
we have had yet."

Warner took us to Richfield in the car.  It was about twenty-five miles
by railroad, but by taking a series of atrociously rough short cuts we
got there very quickly.  It was a pretty little town, on the river, and
back on the hill I could see the Mortons' big country house, where
Halsey and Gertrude had been staying until the night of the murder.

Elm Street was almost the only street, and number fourteen was easily
found.  It was a small white house, dilapidated without having gained
anything picturesque, with a low window and a porch only a foot or so
above the bit of a lawn.  There was a baby-carriage in the path, and
from a swing at the side came the sound of conflict.  Three small
children were disputing vociferously, and a faded young woman with a
kindly face was trying to hush the clamor.  When she saw us she untied
her gingham apron and came around to the porch.

"Good afternoon," I said.  Jamieson lifted his hat, without speaking.
"I came to inquire about a child named Lucien Wallace."

"I am glad you have come," she said.  "In spite of the other children,
I think the little fellow is lonely.  We thought perhaps his mother
would be here to-day."

Mr. Jamieson stepped forward.

"You are Mrs. Tate?" I wondered how the detective knew.

"Yes, sir."

"Mrs. Tate, we want to make some inquiries.  Perhaps in the house--"

"Come right in," she said hospitably.  And soon we were in the little
shabby parlor, exactly like a thousand of its prototypes. Mrs. Tate sat
uneasily, her hands folded in her lap.

"How long has Lucien been here?" Mr. Jamieson asked.

"Since a week ago last Friday.  His mother paid one week's board in
advance; the other has not been paid."

"Was he ill when he came?"

"No, sir, not what you'd call sick.  He was getting better of typhoid,
she said, and he's picking up fine."

"Will you tell me his mother's name and address?"

"That's the trouble," the young woman said, knitting her brows. "She
gave her name as Mrs. Wallace, and said she had no address. She was
looking for a boarding-house in town.  She said she worked in a
department store, and couldn't take care of the child properly, and he
needed fresh air and milk.  I had three children of my own, and one
more didn't make much difference in the work, but--I wish she would pay
this week's board."

"Did she say what store it was?"

"No, sir, but all the boy's clothes came from King's.  He has far too
fine clothes for the country."

There was a chorus of shouts and shrill yells from the front door,
followed by the loud stamping of children's feet and a throaty "whoa,
whoa!"  Into the room came a tandem team of two chubby youngsters, a
boy and a girl, harnessed with a clothes-line, and driven by a laughing
boy of about seven, in tan overalls and brass buttons.  The small
driver caught my attention at once: he was a beautiful child, and,
although he showed traces of recent severe illness, his skin had now
the clear transparency of health.

"Whoa, Flinders," he shouted.  "You're goin' to smash the trap."

Mr. Jamieson coaxed him over by holding out a lead-pencil, striped blue
and yellow.

"Now, then," he said, when the boy had taken the lead-pencil and was
testing its usefulness on the detective's cuff, "now then, I'll bet you
don't know what your name is!"

"I do," said the boy.  "Lucien Wallace."

"Great!  And what's your mother's name?"

"Mother, of course.  What's your mother's name?"  And he pointed to me!
I am going to stop wearing black: it doubles a woman's age.

"And where did you live before you came here?"  The detective was
polite enough not to smile.

"Grossmutter," he said.  And I saw Mr. Jamieson's eyebrows go up.

"German," he commented.  "Well, young man, you don't seem to know much
about yourself."

"I've tried it all week," Mrs. Tate broke in.  "The boy knows a word or
two of German, but he doesn't know where he lived, or anything about
himself."

Mr. Jamieson wrote something on a card and gave it to her.

"Mrs. Tate," he said, "I want you to do something.  Here is some money
for the telephone call.  The instant the boy's mother appears here,
call up that number and ask for the person whose name is there.  You
can run across to the drug-store on an errand and do it quietly.  Just
say, 'The lady has come.'"

"'The lady has come,'" repeated Mrs. Tate.  "Very well, sir, and I hope
it will be soon.  The milk-bill alone is almost double what it was."

"How much is the child's board?" I asked.

"Three dollars a week, including his washing."

"Very well," I said.  "Now, Mrs. Tate, I am going to pay last week's
board and a week in advance.  If the mother comes, she is to know
nothing of this visit--absolutely not a word, and, in return for your
silence, you may use this money for--something for your own children."

Her tired, faded face lighted up, and I saw her glance at the little
Tates' small feet.  Shoes, I divined--the feet of the genteel poor
being almost as expensive as their stomachs.

As we went back Mr. Jamieson made only one remark:  I think he was
laboring under the weight of a great disappointment.

"Is King's a children's outfitting place?" he asked.

"Not especially.  It is a general department store."

He was silent after that, but he went to the telephone as soon as we
got home, and called up King and Company, in the city.

After a time he got the general manager, and they talked for some time.
When Mr. Jamieson hung up the receiver he turned to me.

"The plot thickens," he said with his ready smile.  "There are four
women named Wallace at King's none of them married, and none over
twenty.  I think I shall go up to the city to-night. I want to go to
the Children's Hospital.  But before I go, Miss Innes, I wish you would
be more frank with me than you have been yet.  I want you to show me
the revolver you picked up in the tulip bed."

So he had known all along!

"It WAS a revolver, Mr. Jamieson," I admitted, cornered at last, "but I
can not show it to you.  It is not in my possession."



CHAPTER XXII

A LADDER OUT OF PLACE

At dinner Mr. Jamieson suggested sending a man out in his place for a
couple of days, but Halsey was certain there would be nothing more, and
felt that he and Alex could manage the situation.  The detective went
back to town early in the evening, and by nine o'clock Halsey, who had
been playing golf--as a man does anything to take his mind away from
trouble--was sleeping soundly on the big leather davenport in the
living-room.

I sat and knitted, pretending not to notice when Gertrude got up and
wandered out into the starlight.  As soon as I was satisfied that she
had gone, however, I went out cautiously.  I had no intention of
eavesdropping, but I wanted to be certain that it was Jack Bailey she
was meeting.  Too many things had occurred in which Gertrude was, or
appeared to be, involved, to allow anything to be left in question.

I went slowly across the lawn, skirted the hedge to a break not far
from the lodge, and found myself on the open road.  Perhaps a hundred
feet to the left the path led across the valley to the Country Club,
and only a little way off was the foot-bridge over Casanova Creek.  But
just as I was about to turn down the path I heard steps coming toward
me, and I shrank into the bushes.  It was Gertrude, going back quickly
toward the house.

I was surprised.  I waited until she had had time to get almost to the
house before I started.  And then I stepped back again into the
shadows.  The reason why Gertrude had not kept her tryst was evident.
Leaning on the parapet of the bridge in the moonlight, and smoking a
pipe, was Alex, the gardener.  I could have throttled Liddy for her
carelessness in reading the torn note where he could hear.  And I could
cheerfully have choked Alex to death for his audacity.

But there was no help for it: I turned and followed Gertrude slowly
back to the house.

The frequent invasions of the house had effectually prevented any
relaxation after dusk.  We had redoubled our vigilance as to bolts and
window-locks but, as Mr. Jamieson had suggested, we allowed the door at
the east entry to remain as before, locked by the Yale lock only.  To
provide only one possible entrance for the invader, and to keep a
constant guard in the dark at the foot of the circular staircase,
seemed to be the only method.

In the absence of the detective, Alex and Halsey arranged to change
off, Halsey to be on duty from ten to two, and Alex from two until six.
Each man was armed, and, as an additional precaution, the one off duty
slept in a room near the head of the circular staircase and kept his
door open, to be ready for emergency.

These arrangements were carefully kept from the servants, who were only
commencing to sleep at night, and who retired, one and all, with barred
doors and lamps that burned full until morning.

The house was quiet again Wednesday night.  It was almost a week since
Louise had encountered some one on the stairs, and it was four days
since the discovery of the hole in the trunk-room wall.

Arnold Armstrong and his father rested side by side in the Casanova
churchyard, and at the Zion African Church, on the hill, a new mound
marked the last resting-place of poor Thomas.


Louise was with her mother in town, and, beyond a polite note of thanks
to me, we had heard nothing from her.  Doctor Walker had taken up his
practice again, and we saw him now and then flying past along the road,
always at top speed.  The murder of Arnold Armstrong was still
unavenged, and I remained firm in the position I had taken--to stay at
Sunnyside until the thing was at least partly cleared.

And yet, for all its quiet, it was on Wednesday night that perhaps the
boldest attempt was made to enter the house.  On Thursday afternoon the
laundress sent word she would like to speak to me, and I saw her in my
private sitting-room, a small room beyond the dressing-room.

Mary Anne was embarrassed.  She had rolled down her sleeves and tied a
white apron around her waist, and she stood making folds in it with
fingers that were red and shiny from her soap-suds.

"Well, Mary," I said encouragingly, "what's the matter?  Don't dare to
tell me the soap is out."

"No, ma'm, Miss Innes."  She had a nervous habit of looking first at my
one eye and then at the other, her own optics shifting ceaselessly,
right eye, left eye, right eye, until I found myself doing the same
thing.  "No, ma'm.  I was askin' did you want the ladder left up the
clothes chute?"

"The what?" I screeched, and was sorry the next minute.  Seeing her
suspicions were verified, Mary Anne had gone white, and stood with her
eyes shifting more wildly than ever.

"There's a ladder up the clothes chute, Miss Innes," she said. "It's up
that tight I can't move it, and I didn't like to ask for help until I
spoke to you."

It was useless to dissemble; Mary Anne knew now as well as I did that
the ladder had no business to be there.  I did the best I could,
however.  I put her on the defensive at once.

"Then you didn't lock the laundry last night?"

"I locked it tight, and put the key in the kitchen on its nail."

"Very well, then you forgot a window."

Mary Anne hesitated.

"Yes'm," she said at last.  "I thought I locked them all, but there was
one open this morning."

I went out of the room and down the hall, followed by Mary Anne. The
door into the clothes chute was securely bolted, and when I opened it I
saw the evidence of the woman's story.  A pruning-ladder had been
brought from where it had lain against the stable and now stood upright
in the clothes shaft, its end resting against the wall between the
first and second floors.

I turned to Mary.

"This is due to your carelessness," I said.  "If we had all been
murdered in our beds it would have been your fault."  She shivered.
"Now, not a word of this through the house, and send Alex to me."

The effect on Alex was to make him apoplectic with rage, and with it
all I fancied there was an element of satisfaction.  As I look back, so
many things are plain to me that I wonder I could not see at the time.
It is all known now, and yet the whole thing was so remarkable that
perhaps my stupidity was excusable.

Alex leaned down the chute and examined the ladder carefully.

"It is caught," he said with a grim smile.  "The fools, to have left a
warning like that!  The only trouble is, Miss Innes, they won't be apt
to come back for a while."

"I shouldn't regard that in the light of a calamity," I replied.

Until late that evening Halsey and Alex worked at the chute. They
forced down the ladder at last, and put a new bolt on the door.  As for
myself, I sat and wondered if I had a deadly enemy, intent on my
destruction.

I was growing more and more nervous.  Liddy had given up all pretense
at bravery, and slept regularly in my dressing-room on the couch, with
a prayer-book and a game knife from the kitchen under her pillow, thus
preparing for both the natural and the supernatural.  That was the way
things stood that Thursday night, when I myself took a hand in the
struggle.



CHAPTER XXIII

WHILE THE STABLES BURNED

About nine o'clock that night Liddy came into the living-room and
reported that one of the housemaids declared she had seen two men slip
around the corner of the stable.  Gertrude had been sitting staring in
front of her, jumping at every sound.  Now she turned on Liddy
pettishly.

"I declare, Liddy," she said, "you are a bundle of nerves.  What if
Eliza did see some men around the stable?  It may have been Warner and
Alex."

"Warner is in the kitchen, miss," Liddy said with dignity.  "And if you
had come through what I have, you would be a bundle of nerves, too.
Miss Rachel, I'd be thankful if you'd give me my month's wages
to-morrow.  I'll be going to my sister's."

"Very well," I said, to her evident amazement.  "I will make out the
check.  Warner can take you down to the noon train."

Liddy's face was really funny.

"You'll have a nice time at your sister's," I went on.  "Five children,
hasn't she?"

"That's it," Liddy said, suddenly bursting into tears.  "Send me away,
after all these years, and your new shawl only half done, and nobody
knowin' how to fix the water for your bath."

"It's time I learned to prepare my own bath."  I was knitting
complacently.  But Gertrude got up and put her arms around Liddy's
shaking shoulders.

"You are two big babies," she said soothingly.  "Neither one of you
could get along for an hour without the other.  So stop quarreling and
be good.  Liddy, go right up and lay out Aunty's night things.  She is
going to bed early."

After Liddy had gone I began to think about the men at the stable, and
I grew more and more anxious.  Halsey was aimlessly knocking the
billiard-balls around in the billiard-room, and I called to him.

"Halsey," I said when he sauntered in, "is there a policeman in
Casanova?"

"Constable," he said laconically.  "Veteran of the war, one arm; in
office to conciliate the G. A. R. element.  Why?"

"Because I am uneasy to-night."  And I told him what Liddy had said.
"Is there any one you can think of who could be relied on to watch the
outside of the house to-night?"

"We might get Sam Bohannon from the club," he said thoughtfully. "It
wouldn't be a bad scheme.  He's a smart darky, and with his mouth shut
and his shirt-front covered, you couldn't see him a yard off in the
dark."

Halsey conferred with Alex, and the result, in an hour, was Sam. His
instructions were simple.  There had been numerous attempts to break
into the house; it was the intention, not to drive intruders away, but
to capture them.  If Sam saw anything suspicious outside, he was to tap
at the east entry, where Alex and Halsey were to alternate in keeping
watch through the night.

It was with a comfortable feeling of security that I went to bed that
night.  The door between Gertrude's rooms and mine had been opened,
and, with the doors into the hall bolted, we were safe enough.
Although Liddy persisted in her belief that doors would prove no
obstacles to our disturbers.

As before, Halsey watched the east entry from ten until two. He had an
eye to comfort, and he kept vigil in a heavy oak chair, very large and
deep.  We went up-stairs rather early, and through the open door
Gertrude and I kept up a running fire of conversation.  Liddy was
brushing my hair, and Gertrude was doing her own, with a long free
sweep of her strong round arms.

"Did you know Mrs. Armstrong and Louise are in the village?" she called.

"No," I replied, startled.  "How did you hear it?"

"I met the oldest Stewart girl to-day, the doctor's daughter, and she
told me they had not gone back to town after the funeral. They went
directly to that little yellow house next to Doctor Walker's, and are
apparently settled there.  They took the house furnished for the
summer."

"Why, it's a bandbox," I said.  "I can't imagine Fanny Armstrong in
such a place."

"It's true, nevertheless.  Ella Stewart says Mrs. Armstrong has aged
terribly, and looks as if she is hardly able to walk."

I lay and thought over some of these things until midnight.  The
electric lights went out then, fading slowly until there was only a
red-hot loop to be seen in the bulb, and then even that died away and
we were embarked on the darkness of another night.

Apparently only a few minutes elapsed, during which my eyes were
becoming accustomed to the darkness.  Then I noticed that the windows
were reflecting a faint pinkish light, Liddy noticed it at the same
time, and I heard her jump up.  At that moment Sam's deep voice boomed
from somewhere just below.

"Fire!" he yelled.  "The stable's on fire!"

I could see him in the glare dancing up and down on the drive, and a
moment later Halsey joined him.  Alex was awake and running down the
stairs, and in five minutes from the time the fire was discovered,
three of the maids were sitting on their trunks in the drive, although,
excepting a few sparks, there was no fire nearer than a hundred yards.

Gertrude seldom loses her presence of mind, and she ran to the
telephone.  But by the time the Casanova volunteer fire department came
toiling up the hill the stable was a furnace, with the Dragon Fly safe
but blistered, in the road.  Some gasolene exploded just as the
volunteer department got to work, which shook their nerves as well as
the burning building.  The stable, being on a hill, was a torch to
attract the population from every direction.  Rumor had it that
Sunnyside was burning, and it was amazing how many people threw
something over their night-clothes and flew to the conflagration.

I take it Casanova has few fires, and Sunnyside was furnishing the
people, in one way and another, the greatest excitement they had had
for years.

The stable was off the west wing.  I hardly know how I came to think of
the circular staircase and the unguarded door at its foot.  Liddy was
putting my clothes into sheets, preparatory to tossing them out the
window, when I found her, and I could hardly persuade her to stop.

"I want you to come with me, Liddy," I said.  "Bring a candle and a
couple of blankets."

She lagged behind considerably when she saw me making for the east
wing, and at the top of the staircase she balked.

"I am not going down there," she said firmly.

"There is no one guarding the door down there," I explained. "Who
knows?--this may be a scheme to draw everybody away from this end of
the house, and let some one in here."

The instant I had said it I was convinced I had hit on the explanation,
and that perhaps it was already too late.  It seemed to me as I
listened that I heard stealthy footsteps on the east porch, but there
was so much shouting outside that it was impossible to tell.  Liddy was
on the point of retreat.

"Very well," I said, "then I shall go down alone.  Run back to Mr.
Halsey's room and get his revolver.  Don't shoot down the stairs if you
hear a noise: remember--I shall be down there.  And hurry."

I put the candle on the floor at the top of the staircase and took off
my bedroom slippers.  Then I crept down the stairs, going very slowly,
and listening with all my ears.  I was keyed to such a pitch that I
felt no fear: like the condemned who sleep and eat the night before
execution, I was no longer able to suffer apprehension.  I was past
that.  Just at the foot of the stairs I stubbed my toe against Halsey's
big chair, and had to stand on one foot in a soundless agony until the
pain subsided to a dull ache.  And then--I knew I was right.  Some one
had put a key into the lock, and was turning it.  For some reason it
refused to work, and the key was withdrawn.  There was a muttering of
voices outside: I had only a second.  Another trial, and the door would
open.  The candle above made a faint gleam down the well-like
staircase, and at that moment, with a second, no more, to spare, I
thought of a plan.

The heavy oak chair almost filled the space between the newel post and
the door.  With a crash I had turned it on its side, wedging it against
the door, its legs against the stairs.  I could hear a faint scream
from Liddy, at the crash, and then she came down the stairs on a run,
with the revolver held straight out in front of her.

"Thank God," she said, in a shaking voice.  "I thought it was you."

I pointed to the door, and she understood.

"Call out the windows at the other end of the house," I whispered.
"Run.  Tell them not to wait for anything."

She went up the stairs at that, two at a time.  Evidently she collided
with the candle, for it went out, and I was left in darkness.

I was really astonishingly cool.  I remember stepping over the chair
and gluing my ear to the door, and I shall never forget feeling it give
an inch or two there in the darkness, under a steady pressure from
without.  But the chair held, although I could hear an ominous cracking
of one of the legs.  And then, without the slightest warning, the
card-room window broke with a crash.  I had my finger on the trigger of
the revolver, and as I jumped it went off, right through the door.
Some one outside swore roundly, and for the first time I could hear
what was said.

"Only a scratch. . . .  Men are at the other end of the house. . . .
Have the whole rat's nest on us."  And a lot of profanity which I won't
write down.  The voices were at the broken window now, and although I
was trembling violently, I was determined that I would hold them until
help came.  I moved up the stairs until I could see into the card-room,
or rather through it, to the window.  As I looked a small man put his
leg over the sill and stepped into the room.  The curtain confused him
for a moment; then he turned, not toward me, but toward the
billiard-room door.  I fired again, and something that was glass or
china crashed to the ground.  Then I ran up the stairs and along the
corridor to the main staircase.  Gertrude was standing there, trying to
locate the shots, and I must have been a peculiar figure, with my hair
in crimps, my dressing-gown flying, no slippers, and a revolver
clutched in my hands I had no time to talk.  There was the sound of
footsteps in the lower hall, and some one bounded up the stairs.

I had gone Berserk, I think.  I leaned over the stair-rail and fired
again.  Halsey, below, yelled at me.

"What are you doing up there?" he yelled.  "You missed me by an inch."

And then I collapsed and fainted.  When I came around Liddy was rubbing
my temples with eau de quinine, and the search was in full blast.

Well, the man was gone.  The stable burned to the ground, while the
crowd cheered at every falling rafter, and the volunteer fire
department sprayed it with a garden hose.  And in the house Alex and
Halsey searched every corner of the lower floor, finding no one.

The truth of my story was shown by the broken window and the overturned
chair.  That the unknown had got up-stairs was almost impossible.  He
had not used the main staircase, there was no way to the upper floor in
the east wing, and Liddy had been at the window, in the west wing,
where the servants' stair went up.  But we did not go to bed at all.
Sam Bohannon and Warner helped in the search, and not a closet escaped
scrutiny.  Even the cellars were given a thorough overhauling, without
result.  The door in the east entry had a hole through it where my
bullet had gone.

The hole slanted downward, and the bullet was embedded in the porch.
Some reddish stains showed it had done execution.

"Somebody will walk lame," Halsey said, when he had marked the course
of the bullet.  "It's too low to have hit anything but a leg or foot."

From that time on I watched every person I met for a limp, and to this
day the man who halts in his walk is an object of suspicion to me.  But
Casanova had no lame men: the nearest approach to it was an old fellow
who tended the safety gates at the railroad, and he, I learned on
inquiry, had two artificial legs.  Our man had gone, and the large and
expensive stable at Sunnyside was a heap of smoking rafters and charred
boards.  Warner swore the fire was incendiary, and in view of the
attempt to enter the house, there seemed to be no doubt of it.



CHAPTER XXIV

FLINDERS

If Halsey had only taken me fully into his confidence, through the
whole affair, it would have been much simpler.  If he had been
altogether frank about Jack Bailey, and if the day after the fire he
had told me what he suspected, there would have been no harrowing
period for all of us, with the boy in danger.  But young people refuse
to profit by the experience of their elders, and sometimes the elders
are the ones to suffer.

I was much used up the day after the fire, and Gertrude insisted on my
going out.  The machine was temporarily out of commission, and the
carriage horses had been sent to a farm for the summer. Gertrude
finally got a trap from the Casanova liveryman, and we went out.  Just
as we turned from the drive into the road we passed a woman.  She had
put down a small valise, and stood inspecting the house and grounds
minutely.  I should hardly have noticed her, had it not been for the
fact that she had been horribly disfigured by smallpox.

"Ugh!" Gertrude said, when we had passed, "what a face!  I shall dream
of it to-night.  Get up, Flinders."

"Flinders?" I asked.  "Is that the horse's name?"

"It is."  She flicked the horse's stubby mane with the whip.  "He
didn't look like a livery horse, and the liveryman said he had bought
him from the Armstrongs when they purchased a couple of motors and cut
down the stable.  Nice Flinders--good old boy!"

Flinders was certainly not a common name for a horse, and yet the
youngster at Richfield had named his prancing, curly-haired little
horse Flinders!  It set me to thinking.

At my request Halsey had already sent word of the fire to the agent
from whom we had secured the house.  Also, he had called Mr. Jamieson
by telephone, and somewhat guardedly had told him of the previous
night's events.  Mr. Jamieson promised to come out that night, and to
bring another man with him.  I did not consider it necessary to notify
Mrs. Armstrong, in the village. No doubt she knew of the fire, and in
view of my refusal to give up the house, an interview would probably
have been unpleasant enough.  But as we passed Doctor Walker's white
and green house I thought of something.

"Stop here, Gertrude," I said.  "I am going to get out."

"To see Louise?" she asked.

"No, I want to ask this young Walker something."

She was curious, I knew, but I did not wait to explain.  I went up the
walk to the house, where a brass sign at the side announced the office,
and went in.  The reception-room was empty, but from the
consulting-room beyond came the sound of two voices, not very amicable.

"It is an outrageous figure," some one was storming.  Then the doctor's
quiet tone, evidently not arguing, merely stating something.  But I had
not time to listen to some person probably disputing his bill, so I
coughed.  The voices ceased at once: a door closed somewhere, and the
doctor entered from the hall of the house.  He looked sufficiently
surprised at seeing me.

"Good afternoon, Doctor," I said formally.  "I shall not keep you from
your patient.  I wish merely to ask you a question."

"Won't you sit down?"

"It will not be necessary.  Doctor, has any one come to you, either
early this morning or to-day, to have you treat a bullet wound?"

"Nothing so startling has happened to me," he said.  "A bullet wound!
Things must be lively at Sunnyside."

"I didn't say it was at Sunnyside.  But as it happens, it was. If any
such case comes to you, will it be too much trouble for you to let me
know?"

"I shall be only too happy," he said.  "I understand you have had a
fire up there, too.  A fire and shooting in one night is rather lively
for a quiet place like that."

"It is as quiet as a boiler-shop," I replied, as I turned to go.

"And you are still going to stay?"

"Until I am burned out," I responded.  And then on my way down the
steps, I turned around suddenly.

"Doctor," I asked at a venture, "have you ever heard of a child named
Lucien Wallace?"

Clever as he was, his face changed and stiffened.  He was on his guard
again in a moment.

"Lucien Wallace?" he repeated.  "No, I think not.  There are plenty of
Wallaces around, but I don't know any Lucien."

I was as certain as possible that he did.  People do not lie readily to
me, and this man lied beyond a doubt.  But there was nothing to be
gained now; his defenses were up, and I left, half irritated and wholly
baffled.

Our reception was entirely different at Doctor Stewart's.  Taken into
the bosom of the family at once, Flinders tied outside and nibbling the
grass at the roadside, Gertrude and I drank some home-made elderberry
wine and told briefly of the fire.  Of the more serious part of the
night's experience, of course, we said nothing.  But when at last we
had left the family on the porch and the good doctor was untying our
steed, I asked him the same question I had put to Doctor Walker.

"Shot!" he said.  "Bless my soul, no.  Why, what have you been doing up
at the big house, Miss Innes?"

"Some one tried to enter the house during the fire, and was shot and
slightly injured," I said hastily.  "Please don't mention it; we wish
to make as little of it as possible."

There was one other possibility, and we tried that.  At Casanova
station I saw the station master, and asked him if any trains left
Casanova between one o'clock and daylight.  There was none until six
A.M.  The next question required more diplomacy.

"Did you notice on the six-o'clock train any person--any man--who
limped a little?" I asked.  "Please try to remember: we are trying to
trace a man who was seen loitering around Sunnyside last night before
the fire."

He was all attention in a moment.

"I was up there myself at the fire," he said volubly.  "I'm a member of
the volunteer company.  First big fire we've had since the summer house
burned over to the club golf links.  My wife was sayin' the other day,
'Dave, you might as well 'a' saved the money in that there helmet and
shirt.'  And here last night they came in handy.  Rang that bell so
hard I hadn't time scarcely to get 'em on."

"And--did you see a man who limped?" Gertrude put in, as he stopped for
breath.

"Not at the train, ma'm," he said.  "No such person got on here to-day.
But I'll tell you where I did see a man that limped.  I didn't wait
till the fire company left; there's a fast freight goes through at four
forty-five, and I had to get down to the station.  I seen there wasn't
much more to do anyhow at the fire--we'd got the flames under
control"--Gertrude looked at me and smiled--"so I started down the
hill.  There was folks here and there goin' home, and along by the path
to the Country Club I seen two men.  One was a short fellow.  He was
sitting on a big rock, his back to me, and he had something white in
his hand, as if he was tying up his foot.  After I'd gone on a piece I
looked back, and he was hobbling on and--excuse me, miss--he was
swearing something sickening."

"Did they go toward the club?" Gertrude asked suddenly, leaning forward.

"No, miss.  I think they came into the village.  I didn't get a look at
their faces, but I know every chick and child in the place, and
everybody knows me.  When they didn't shout at me--in my uniform, you
know--I took it they were strangers."

So all we had for our afternoon's work was this: some one had been shot
by the bullet that went through the door; he had not left the village,
and he had not called in a physician.  Also, Doctor Walker knew who
Lucien Wallace was, and his very denial made me confident that, in that
one direction at least, we were on the right track.

The thought that the detective would be there that night was the most
cheering thing of all, and I think even Gertrude was glad of it.
Driving home that afternoon, I saw her in the clear sunlight for the
first time in several days, and I was startled to see how ill she
looked.  She was thin and colorless, and all her bright animation was
gone.

"Gertrude," I said, "I have been a very selfish old woman.  You are
going to leave this miserable house to-night.  Annie Morton is going to
Scotland next week, and you shall go right with her."

To my surprise, she flushed painfully.

"I don't want to go, Aunt Ray," she said.  "Don't make me leave now."

"You are losing your health and your good looks," I said decidedly.
"You should have a change."

"I shan't stir a foot."  She was equally decided.  Then, more lightly:
"Why, you and Liddy need me to arbitrate between you every day in the
week."

Perhaps I was growing suspicious of every one, but it seemed to me that
Gertrude's gaiety was forced and artificial.  I watched her covertly
during the rest of the drive, and I did not like the two spots of
crimson in her pale cheeks.  But I said nothing more about sending her
to Scotland: I knew she would not go.



CHAPTER XXV

A VISIT FROM LOUISE

That day was destined to be an eventful one, for when I entered the
house and found Eliza ensconced in the upper hall on a chair, with Mary
Anne doing her best to stifle her with household ammonia, and Liddy
rubbing her wrists--whatever good that is supposed to do--I knew that
the ghost had been walking again, and this time in daylight.

Eliza was in a frenzy of fear.  She clutched at my sleeve when I went
close to her, and refused to let go until she had told her story.
Coming just after the fire, the household was demoralized, and it was
no surprise to me to find Alex and the under-gardener struggling
down-stairs with a heavy trunk between them.

"I didn't want to do it, Miss Innes," Alex said.  "But she was so
excited, I was afraid she would do as she said--drag it down herself,
and scratch the staircase."

I was trying to get my bonnet off and to keep the maids quiet at the
same time.  "Now, Eliza, when you have washed your face and stopped
bawling," I said, "come into my sitting-room and tell me what has
happened."

Liddy put away my things without speaking.  The very set of her
shoulders expressed disapproval.

"Well," I said, when the silence became uncomfortable, "things seem to
be warming up."

Silence from Liddy, and a long sigh.

"If Eliza goes, I don't know where to look for another cook." More
silence.

"Rosie is probably a good cook."  Sniff.

"Liddy," I said at last, "don't dare to deny that you are having the
time of your life.  You positively gloat in this excitement. You never
looked better.  It's my opinion all this running around, and getting
jolted out of a rut, has stirred up that torpid liver of yours."

"It's not myself I'm thinking about," she said, goaded into speech.
"Maybe my liver was torpid, and maybe it wasn't; but I know this: I've
got some feelings left, and to see you standing at the foot of that
staircase shootin' through the door--I'll never be the same woman
again."

"Well, I'm glad of that--anything for a change," I said.  And in came
Eliza, flanked by Rosie and Mary Anne.

Her story, broken with sobs and corrections from the other two, was
this:  At two o'clock (two-fifteen, Rosie insisted) she had gone
up-stairs to get a picture from her room to show Mary Anne. (A picture
of a LADY, Mary Anne interposed.)  She went up the servants' staircase
and along the corridor to her room, which lay between the trunk-room
and the unfinished ball-room.  She heard a sound as she went down the
corridor, like some one moving furniture, but she was not nervous.  She
thought it might be men examining the house after the fire the night
before, but she looked in the trunk-room and saw nobody.

She went into her room quietly.  The noise had ceased, and everything
was quiet.  Then she sat down on the side of her bed, and, feeling
faint--she was subject to spells--("I told you that when I came, didn't
I, Rosie?"  "Yes'm, indeed she did!")--she put her head down on her
pillow and--

"Took a nap.  All right!" I said.  "Go on."

"When I came to, Miss Innes, sure as I'm sittin' here, I thought I'd
die.  Somethin' hit me on the face, and I set up, sudden. And then I
seen the plaster drop, droppin' from a little hole in the wall.  And
the first thing I knew, an iron bar that long" (fully two yards by her
measure) "shot through that hole and tumbled on the bed.  If I'd been
still sleeping"  ("Fainting," corrected Rosie) "I'd 'a' been hit on the
head and killed!"

"I wisht you'd heard her scream," put in Mary Anne.  "And her face as
white as a pillow-slip when she tumbled down the stairs."

"No doubt there is some natural explanation for it, Eliza," I said.
"You may have dreamed it, in your 'fainting' attack.  But if it is
true, the metal rod and the hole in the wall will show it."

Eliza looked a little bit sheepish.

"The hole's there all right, Miss Innes," she said.  "But the bar was
gone when Mary Anne and Rosie went up to pack my trunk."

"That wasn't all," Liddy's voice came funereally from a corner. "Eliza
said that from the hole in the wall a burning eye looked down at her!"

"The wall must be at least six inches thick," I said with asperity.
"Unless the person who drilled the hole carried his eyes on the ends of
a stick, Eliza couldn't possibly have seen them."

But the fact remained, and a visit to Eliza's room proved it.  I might
jeer all I wished: some one had drilled a hole in the unfinished wall
of the ball-room, passing between the bricks of the partition, and
shooting through the unresisting plaster of Eliza's room with such
force as to send the rod flying on to her bed.  I had gone up-stairs
alone, and I confess the thing puzzled me: in two or three places in
the wall small apertures had been made, none of them of any depth.  Not
the least mysterious thing was the disappearance of the iron implement
that had been used.

I remembered a story I read once about an impish dwarf that lived in
the spaces between the double walls of an ancient castle.  I wondered
vaguely if my original idea of a secret entrance to a hidden chamber
could be right, after all, and if we were housing some erratic guest,
who played pranks on us in the dark, and destroyed the walls that he
might listen, hidden safely away, to our amazed investigations.

Mary Anne and Eliza left that afternoon, but Rosie decided to stay.  It
was about five o'clock when the hack came from the station to get them,
and, to my amazement, it had an occupant. Matthew Geist, the driver,
asked for me, and explained his errand with pride.

"I've brought you a cook, Miss Innes," he said.  "When the message came
to come up for two girls and their trunks, I supposed there was
something doing, and as this here woman had been looking for work in
the village, I thought I'd bring her along."

Already I had acquired the true suburbanite ability to take servants on
faith; I no longer demanded written and unimpeachable references.  I,
Rachel Innes, have learned not to mind if the cook sits down
comfortably in my sitting-room when she is taking the orders for the
day, and I am grateful if the silver is not cleaned with scouring soap.
And so that day I merely told Liddy to send the new applicant in.  When
she came, however, I could hardly restrain a gasp of surprise.  It was
the woman with the pitted face.

She stood somewhat awkwardly just inside the door, and she had an air
of self-confidence that was inspiring.  Yes, she could cook; was not a
fancy cook, but could make good soups and desserts if there was any one
to take charge of the salads.  And so, in the end, I took her.  As
Halsey said, when we told him, it didn't matter much about the cook's
face, if it was clean.

I have spoken of Halsey's restlessness.  On that day it seemed to be
more than ever a resistless impulse that kept him out until after
luncheon.  I think he hoped constantly that he might meet Louise
driving over the hills in her runabout: possibly he did meet her
occasionally, but from his continued gloom I felt sure the situation
between them was unchanged.

Part of the afternoon I believe he read--Gertrude and I were out, as I
have said, and at dinner we both noticed that something had occurred to
distract him.  He was disagreeable, which is unlike him, nervous,
looking at his watch every few minutes, and he ate almost nothing.  He
asked twice during the meal on what train Mr. Jamieson and the other
detective were coming, and had long periods of abstraction during which
he dug his fork into my damask cloth and did not hear when he was
spoken to.  He refused dessert, and left the table early, excusing
himself on the ground that he wanted to see Alex.

Alex, however, was not to be found.  It was after eight when Halsey
ordered the car, and started down the hill at a pace that, even for
him, was unusually reckless.  Shortly after, Alex reported that he was
ready to go over the house, preparatory to closing it for the night.
Sam Bohannon came at a quarter before nine, and began his patrol of the
grounds, and with the arrival of the two detectives to look forward to,
I was not especially apprehensive.

At half-past nine I heard the sound of a horse driven furiously up the
drive.  It came to a stop in front of the house, and immediately after
there were hurried steps on the veranda.  Our nerves were not what they
should have been, and Gertrude, always apprehensive lately, was at the
door almost instantly.  A moment later Louise had burst into the room
and stood there bareheaded and breathing hard!

"Where is Halsey?" she demanded.  Above her plain black gown her eyes
looked big and somber, and the rapid drive had brought no color to her
face.  I got up and drew forward a chair.

"He has not come back," I said quietly.  "Sit down, child; you are not
strong enough for this kind of thing."

I don't think she even heard me.

"He has not come back?" she asked, looking from me to Gertrude. "Do you
know where he went?  Where can I find him?"

"For Heaven's sake, Louise," Gertrude burst out, "tell us what is
wrong.  Halsey is not here.  He has gone to the station for Mr.
Jamieson.  What has happened?"

"To the station, Gertrude?  You are sure?"

"Yes," I said.  "Listen.  There is the whistle of the train now."

She relaxed a little at our matter-of-fact tone, and allowed herself to
sink into a chair.

"Perhaps I was wrong," she said heavily.  "He--will be here in a few
moments if--everything is right."

We sat there, the three of us, without attempt at conversation. Both
Gertrude and I recognized the futility of asking Louise any questions:
her reticence was a part of a role she had assumed. Our ears were
strained for the first throb of the motor as it turned into the drive
and commenced the climb to the house.  Ten minutes passed, fifteen,
twenty.  I saw Louise's hands grow rigid as they clutched the arms of
her chair.  I watched Gertrude's bright color slowly ebbing away, and
around my own heart I seemed to feel the grasp of a giant hand.

Twenty-five minutes, and then a sound.  But it was not the chug of the
motor: it was the unmistakable rumble of the Casanova hack.  Gertrude
drew aside the curtain and peered into the darkness.

"It's the hack, I am sure," she said, evidently relieved. "Something
has gone wrong with the car, and no wonder--the way Halsey went down
the hill."

It seemed a long time before the creaking vehicle came to a stop at the
door.  Louise rose and stood watching, her hand to her throat.  And
then Gertrude opened the door, admitting Mr. Jamieson and a stocky,
middle-aged man.  Halsey was not with them.  When the door had closed
and Louise realized that Halsey had not come, her expression changed.
From tense watchfulness to relief, and now again to absolute despair,
her face was an open page.

"Halsey?" I asked unceremoniously, ignoring the stranger.  "Did he not
meet you?"

"No."  Mr. Jamieson looked slightly surprised.  "I rather expected the
car, but we got up all right."

"You didn't see him at all?" Louise demanded breathlessly.

Mr. Jamieson knew her at once, although he had not seen her before.
She had kept to her rooms until the morning she left.

"No, Miss Armstrong," he said.  "I saw nothing of him.  What is wrong?"

"Then we shall have to find him," she asserted.  "Every instant is
precious.  Mr. Jamieson, I have reason for believing that he is in
danger, but I don't know what it is.  Only--he must be found."

The stocky man had said nothing.  Now, however, he went quickly toward
the door.

"I'll catch the hack down the road and hold it," he said.  "Is the
gentleman down in the town?"

"Mr. Jamieson," Louise said impulsively, "I can use the hack. Take my
horse and trap outside and drive like mad.  Try to find the Dragon
Fly--it ought to be easy to trace.  I can think of no other way.  Only,
don't lose a moment."

The new detective had gone, and a moment later Jamieson went rapidly
down the drive, the cob's feet striking fire at every step.  Louise
stood looking after them.  When she turned around she faced Gertrude,
who stood indignant, almost tragic, in the hall.

"You KNOW what threatens Halsey, Louise," she said accusingly.  "I
believe you know this whole horrible thing, this mystery that we are
struggling with.  If anything happens to Halsey, I shall never forgive
you."

Louise only raised her hands despairingly and dropped them again.

"He is as dear to me as he is to you," she said sadly.  "I tried to
warn him."

"Nonsense!" I said, as briskly as I could.  "We are making a lot of
trouble out of something perhaps very small.  Halsey was probably
late--he is always late.  Any moment we may hear the car coming up the
road."

But it did not come.  After a half-hour of suspense, Louise went out
quietly, and did not come back.  I hardly knew she was gone until I
heard the station hack moving off.  At eleven o'clock the telephone
rang.  It was Mr. Jamieson.

"I have found the Dragon Fly, Miss Innes," he said.  "It has collided
with a freight car on the siding above the station.  No, Mr. Innes was
not there, but we shall probably find him.  Send Warner for the car."

But they did not find him.  At four o'clock the next morning we were
still waiting for news, while Alex watched the house and Sam the
grounds.  At daylight I dropped into exhausted sleep. Halsey had not
come back, and there was no word from the detective.



CHAPTER XXVI

HALSEY'S DISAPPEARANCE

Nothing that had gone before had been as bad as this.  The murder and
Thomas' sudden death we had been able to view in a detached sort of
way.  But with Halsey's disappearance everything was altered.  Our
little circle, intact until now, was broken.  We were no longer
onlookers who saw a battle passing around them. We were the center of
action.  Of course, there was no time then to voice such an idea.  My
mind seemed able to hold only one thought: that Halsey had been foully
dealt with, and that every minute lost might be fatal.

Mr. Jamieson came back about eight o'clock the next morning: he was
covered with mud, and his hat was gone.  Altogether, we were a
sad-looking trio that gathered around a breakfast that no one could
eat.  Over a cup of black coffee the detective told us what he had
learned of Halsey's movements the night before. Up to a certain point
the car had made it easy enough to follow him.  And I gathered that Mr.
Burns, the other detective, had followed a similar car for miles at
dawn, only to find it was a touring car on an endurance run.

"He left here about ten minutes after eight," Mr. Jamieson said. "He
went alone, and at eight twenty he stopped at Doctor Walker's.  I went
to the doctor's about midnight, but he had been called out on a case,
and had not come back at four o'clock. From the doctor's it seems Mr.
Innes walked across the lawn to the cottage Mrs. Armstrong and her
daughter have taken.  Mrs. Armstrong had retired, and he said perhaps a
dozen words to Miss Louise.  She will not say what they were, but the
girl evidently suspects what has occurred.  That is, she suspects foul
play, but she doesn't know of what nature.  Then, apparently, he
started directly for the station.  He was going very fast--the flagman
at the Carol Street crossing says he saw the car pass.  He knew the
siren.  Along somewhere in the dark stretch between Carol Street and
the depot he evidently swerved suddenly--perhaps some one in the
road--and went full into the side of a freight.  We found it there last
night."

"He might have been thrown under the train by the force of the shock,"
I said tremulously.

Gertrude shuddered.

"We examined every inch of track.  There was--no sign."

"But surely--he can't be--gone!" I cried.  "Aren't there traces in the
mud--anything?"

"There is no mud--only dust.  There has been no rain.  And the footpath
there is of cinders.  Miss Innes, I am inclined to think that he has
met with bad treatment, in the light of what has gone before.  I do not
think he has been murdered."  I shrank from the word.  "Burns is back
in the country, on a clue we got from the night clerk at the
drug-store.  There will be two more men here by noon, and the city
office is on the lookout."

"The creek?" Gertrude asked.

"The creek is shallow now.  If it were swollen with rain, it would be
different.  There is hardly any water in it.  Now, Miss Innes," he
said, turning to me, "I must ask you some questions. Had Mr. Halsey any
possible reason for going away like this, without warning?"

"None whatever."

"He went away once before," he persisted.  "And you were as sure then."

"He did not leave the Dragon Fly jammed into the side of a freight car
before."

"No, but he left it for repairs in a blacksmith shop, a long distance
from here.  Do you know if he had any enemies?  Any one who might wish
him out of the way?"

"Not that I know of, unless--no, I can not think of any."

"Was he in the habit of carrying money?"

"He never carried it far.  No, he never had more than enough for
current expenses."

Mr. Jamieson got up then and began to pace the room.  It was an
unwonted concession to the occasion.

"Then I think we get at it by elimination.  The chances are against
flight.  If he was hurt, we find no trace of him.  It looks almost like
an abduction.  This young Doctor Walker--have you any idea why Mr.
Innes should have gone there last night?"

"I can not understand it," Gertrude said thoughtfully.  "I don't think
he knew Doctor Walker at all, and--their relations could hardly have
been cordial, under the circumstances."

Jamieson pricked up his ears, and little by little he drew from us the
unfortunate story of Halsey's love affair, and the fact that Louise was
going to marry Doctor Walker.

Mr. Jamieson listened attentively.

"There are some interesting developments here," he said thoughtfully.
"The woman who claims to be the mother of Lucien Wallace has not come
back.  Your nephew has apparently been spirited away.  There is an
organized attempt being made to enter this house; in fact, it has been
entered.  Witness the incident with the cook yesterday.  And I have a
new piece of information."

He looked carefully away from Gertrude.  "Mr. John Bailey is not at his
Knickerbocker apartments, and I don't know where he is. It's a hash,
that's what it is.  It's a Chinese puzzle.  They won't fit together,
unless--unless Mr. Bailey and your nephew have again--"

And once again Gertrude surprised me.  "They are not together," she
said hotly.  "I--know where Mr. Bailey is, and my brother is not with
him."

The detective turned and looked at her keenly.

"Miss Gertrude," he said, "if you and Miss Louise would only tell me
everything you know and surmise about this business, I should be able
to do a great many things.  I believe I could find your brother, and I
might be able to--well, to do some other things."  But Gertrude's
glance did not falter.

"Nothing that I know could help you to find Halsey," she said
stubbornly.  "I know absolutely as little of his disappearance as you
do, and I can only say this: I do not trust Doctor Walker.  I think he
hated Halsey, and he would get rid of him if he could."

"Perhaps you are right.  In fact, I had some such theory myself. But
Doctor Walker went out late last night to a serious case in
Summitville, and is still there.  Burns traced him there.  We have made
guarded inquiry at the Greenwood Club, and through the village.  There
is absolutely nothing to go on but this.  On the embankment above the
railroad, at the point where we found the machine, is a small house.
An old woman and a daughter, who is very lame, live there.  They say
that they distinctly heard the shock when the Dragon Fly hit the car,
and they went to the bottom of their garden and looked over.  The
automobile was there; they could see the lights, and they thought
someone had been injured.  It was very dark, but they could make out
two figures, standing together.  The women were curious, and, leaving
the fence, they went back and by a roundabout path down to the road.
When they got there the car was still standing, the headlight broken
and the bonnet crushed, but there was no one to be seen."

The detective went away immediately, and to Gertrude and me was left
the woman's part, to watch and wait.  By luncheon nothing had been
found, and I was frantic.  I went up-stairs to Halsey's room finally,
from sheer inability to sit across from Gertrude any longer, and meet
her terror-filled eyes.

Liddy was in my dressing-room, suspiciously red-eyed, and trying to put
a right sleeve in a left armhole of a new waist for me.  I was too much
shaken to scold.

"What name did that woman in the kitchen give?" she demanded, viciously
ripping out the offending sleeve.

"Bliss.  Mattie Bliss," I replied.

"Bliss.  M. B.  Well, that's not what she has on he suitcase.  It is
marked N. F. C."

The new cook and her initials troubled me not at all.  I put on my
bonnet and sent for what the Casanova liveryman called a "stylish
turnout."  Having once made up my mind to a course of action, I am not
one to turn back.  Warner drove me; he was plainly disgusted, and he
steered the livery horse as he would the Dragon Fly, feeling uneasily
with his left foot for the clutch, and working his right elbow at an
imaginary horn every time a dog got in the way.

Warner had something on his mind, and after we had turned into the
road, he voiced it.

"Miss Innes," he said.  "I overheard a part of a conversation yesterday
that I didn't understand.  It wasn't my business to understand it, for
that matter.  But I've been thinking all day that I'd better tell you.
Yesterday afternoon, while you and Miss Gertrude were out driving, I
had got the car in some sort of shape again after the fire, and I went
to the library to call Mr. Innes to see it.  I went into the
living-room, where Miss Liddy said he was, and half-way across to the
library I heard him talking to some one.  He seemed to be walking up
and down, and he was in a rage, I can tell you."

"What did he say?"

"The first thing I heard was--excuse me, Miss Innes, but it's what he
said, 'The damned rascal,' he said, 'I'll see him in'--well, in hell
was what he said, 'in hell first.'  Then somebody else spoke up; it was
a woman.  She said, 'I warned them, but they thought I would be
afraid.'"

"A woman!  Did you wait to see who it was?"

"I wasn't spying, Miss Innes," Warner said with dignity.  "But the next
thing caught my attention.  She said, 'I knew there was something wrong
from the start.  A man isn't well one day, and dead the next, without
some reason.'  I thought she was speaking of Thomas."

"And you don't know who it was!" I exclaimed.  "Warner, you had the key
to this whole occurrence in your hands, and did not use it!"

However, there was nothing to be done.  I resolved to make inquiry when
I got home, and in the meantime, my present errand absorbed me.  This
was nothing less than to see Louise Armstrong, and to attempt to drag
from her what she knew, or suspected, of Halsey's disappearance.  But
here, as in every direction I turned, I was baffled.

A neat maid answered the bell, but she stood squarely in the doorway,
and it was impossible to preserve one's dignity and pass her.

"Miss Armstrong is very ill, and unable to see any one," she said.  I
did not believe her.

"And Mrs. Armstrong--is she also ill?"

"She is with Miss Louise and can not be disturbed."

"Tell her it is Miss Innes, and that it is a matter of the greatest
importance."

"It would be of no use, Miss Innes.  My orders are positive."

At that moment a heavy step sounded on the stairs.  Past the maid's
white-strapped shoulder I could see a familiar thatch of gray hair, and
in a moment I was face to face with Doctor Stewart.  He was very grave,
and his customary geniality was tinged with restraint.

"You are the very woman I want to see," he said promptly.  "Send away
your trap, and let me drive you home.  What is this about your nephew?"

"He has disappeared, doctor.  Not only that, but there is every
evidence that he has been either abducted, or--" I could not finish.
The doctor helped me into his capacious buggy in silence.  Until we had
got a little distance he did not speak; then he turned and looked at me.

"Now tell me about it," he said.  He heard me through without speaking.

"And you think Louise knows something?" he said when I had finished.
"I don't--in fact, I am sure of it.  The best evidence of it is this:
she asked me if he had been heard from, or if anything had been
learned.  She won't allow Walker in the room, and she made me promise
to see you and tell you this: don't give up the search for him.  Find
him, and find him soon.  He is living."

"Well," I said, "if she knows that, she knows more.  She is a very
cruel and ungrateful girl."

"She is a very sick girl," he said gravely.  "Neither you nor I can
judge her until we know everything.  Both she and her mother are ghosts
of their former selves.  Under all this, these two sudden deaths, this
bank robbery, the invasions at Sunnyside and Halsey's disappearance,
there is some mystery that, mark my words, will come out some day.  And
when it does, we shall find Louise Armstrong a victim."

I had not noticed where we were going, but now I saw we were beside the
railroad, and from a knot of men standing beside the track I divined
that it was here the car had been found.  The siding, however, was
empty.  Except a few bits of splintered wood on the ground, there was
no sign of the accident.

"Where is the freight car that was rammed?" the doctor asked a
bystander.

"It was taken away at daylight, when the train was moved."

There was nothing to be gained.  He pointed out the house on the
embankment where the old lady and her daughter had heard the crash and
seen two figures beside the car.  Then we drove slowly home.  I had the
doctor put me down at the gate, and I walked to the house--past the
lodge where we had found Louise, and, later, poor Thomas; up the drive
where I had seen a man watching the lodge and where, later, Rosie had
been frightened; past the east entrance, where so short a time before
the most obstinate effort had been made to enter the house, and where,
that night two weeks ago, Liddy and I had seen the strange woman.  Not
far from the west wing lay the blackened ruins of the stables.  I felt
like a ruin myself, as I paused on the broad veranda before I entered
the house.

Two private detectives had arrived in my absence, and it was a relief
to turn over to them the responsibility of the house and grounds.  Mr.
Jamieson, they said, had arranged for more to assist in the search for
the missing man, and at that time the country was being scoured in all
directions.

The household staff was again depleted that afternoon.  Liddy was
waiting to tell me that the new cook had gone, bag and baggage, without
waiting to be paid.  No one had admitted the visitor whom Warner had
heard in the library, unless, possibly, the missing cook.  Again I was
working in a circle.



CHAPTER XXVII

WHO IS NINA CARRINGTON?

The four days, from Saturday to the following Tuesday, we lived, or
existed, in a state of the most dreadful suspense.  We ate only when
Liddy brought in a tray, and then very little.  The papers, of course,
had got hold of the story, and we were besieged by newspaper men.  From
all over the country false clues came pouring in and raised hopes that
crumbled again to nothing. Every morgue within a hundred miles, every
hospital, had been visited, without result.

Mr. Jamieson, personally, took charge of the organized search, and
every evening, no matter where he happened to be, he called us by long
distance telephone.  It was the same formula. "Nothing to-day.  A new
clue to work on.  Better luck to-morrow."

And heartsick we would put up the receiver and sit down again to our
vigil.

The inaction was deadly.  Liddy cried all day, and, because she knew I
objected to tears, sniffled audibly around the corner.

"For Heaven's sake, smile!" I snapped at her.  And her ghastly attempt
at a grin, with her swollen nose and red eyes, made me hysterical.  I
laughed and cried together, and pretty soon, like the two old fools we
were, we were sitting together weeping into the same handkerchief.

Things were happening, of course, all the time, but they made little or
no impression.  The Charity Hospital called up Doctor Stewart and
reported that Mrs. Watson was in a critical condition.  I understood
also that legal steps were being taken to terminate my lease at
Sunnyside.  Louise was out of danger, but very ill, and a trained nurse
guarded her like a gorgon. There was a rumor in the village, brought up
by Liddy from the butcher's, that a wedding had already taken place
between Louise and Doctor Walkers and this roused me for the first time
to action.

On Tuesday, then, I sent for the car, and prepared to go out.  As I
waited at the porte-cochere I saw the under-gardener, an inoffensive,
grayish-haired man, trimming borders near the house.

The day detective was watching him, sitting on the carriage block.
When he saw me, he got up.

"Miss Innes," he said, taking of his hat, "do you know where Alex, the
gardener, is?"

"Why, no.  Isn't he here?" I asked.

"He has been gone since yesterday afternoon.  Have you employed him
long?"

"Only a couple of weeks."

"Is he efficient?  A capable man?"

"I hardly know," I said vaguely.  "The place looks all right, and I
know very little about such things.  I know much more about boxes of
roses than bushes of them."

"This man," pointing to the assistant, "says Alex isn't a gardener.
That he doesn't know anything about plants."

"That's very strange," I said, thinking hard.  "Why, he came to me from
the Brays, who are in Europe."

"Exactly."  The detective smiled.  "Every man who cuts grass isn't a
gardener, Miss Innes, and just now it is our policy to believe every
person around here a rascal until he proves to be the other thing."

Warner came up with the car then, and the conversation stopped.  As he
helped me in, however, the detective said something further.

"Not a word or sign to Alex, if he comes back," he said cautiously.

I went first to Doctor Walker's.  I was tired of beating about the
bush, and I felt that the key to Halsey's disappearance was here at
Casanova, in spite of Mr. Jamieson's theories.

The doctor was in.  He came at once to the door of his consulting-room,
and there was no mask of cordiality in his manner.

"Please come in," he said curtly.

"I shall stay here, I think, doctor."  I did not like his face or his
manner; there was a subtle change in both.  He had thrown off the air of
friendliness, and I thought, too, that he looked anxious and haggard.

"Doctor Walker," I said, "I have come to you to ask some questions.  I
hope you will answer them.  As you know, my nephew has not yet been
found."

"So I understand," stiffly.

"I believe, if you would, you could help us, and that leads to one of
my questions.  Will you tell me what was the nature of the conversation
you held with him the night he was attacked and carried off?"

"Attacked!  Carried off!" he said, with pretended surprise. "Really,
Miss Innes, don't you think you exaggerate?  I understand it is not the
first time Mr. Innes has--disappeared."

"You are quibbling, doctor.  This is a matter of life and death. Will
you answer my question?"

"Certainly.  He said his nerves were bad, and I gave him a prescription
for them.  I am violating professional ethics when I tell you even as
much as that."

I could not tell him he lied.  I think I looked it.  But I hazarded a
random shot.

"I thought perhaps," I said, watching him narrowly, "that it might be
about--Nina Carrington."

For a moment I thought he was going to strike me.  He grew livid, and a
small crooked blood-vessel in his temple swelled and throbbed
curiously.  Then he forced a short laugh.

"Who is Nina Carrington?" he asked.

"I am about to discover that," I replied, and he was quiet at once.  It
was not difficult to divine that he feared Nina Carrington a good deal
more than he did the devil.  Our leave-taking was brief; in fact, we
merely stared at each other over the waiting-room table, with its
litter of year-old magazines.  Then I turned and went out.

"To Richfield," I told Warner, and on the way I thought, and thought
hard.

"Nina Carrington, Nina Carrington," the roar and rush of the wheels
seemed to sing the words.  "Nina Carrington, N. C."  And I then knew,
knew as surely as if I had seen the whole thing. There had been an N.
C. on the suit-case belonging to the woman with the pitted face.  How
simple it all seemed.  Mattie Bliss had been Nina Carrington.  It was
she Warner had heard in the library.  It was something she had told
Halsey that had taken him frantically to Doctor Walker's office, and
from there perhaps to his death.  If we could find the woman, we might
find what had become of Halsey.

We were almost at Richfield now, so I kept on.  My mind was not on my
errand there now.  It was back with Halsey on that memorable night.
What was it he had said to Louise, that had sent her up to Sunnyside,
half wild with fear for him?  I made up my mind, as the car drew up
before the Tate cottage, that I would see Louise if I had to break into
the house at night.

Almost exactly the same scene as before greeted my eyes at the cottage.
Mrs. Tate, the baby-carriage in the path, the children at the
swing--all were the same.

She came forward to meet me, and I noticed that some of the anxious
lines had gone out of her face.  She looked young, almost pretty.

"I am glad you have come back," she said.  "I think I will have to be
honest and give you back your money."

"Why?" I asked.  "Has the mother come?"

"No, but some one came and paid the boy's board for a month.  She
talked to him for a long time, but when I asked him afterward he didn't
know her name."

"A young woman?"

"Not very young.  About forty, I suppose.  She was small and
fair-haired, just a little bit gray, and very sad.  She was in deep
mourning, and, I think, when she came, she expected to go at once.  But
the child, Lucien, interested her.  She talked to him for a long time,
and, indeed, she looked much happier when she left."

"You are sure this was not the real mother?"

"O mercy, no!  Why, she didn't know which of the three was Lucien.  I
thought perhaps she was a friend of yours, but, of course, I didn't
ask."

"She was not--pock-marked?" I asked at a venture.  "No, indeed. A skin
like a baby's.  But perhaps you will know the initials. She gave Lucien
a handkerchief and forgot it.  It was very fine, black-bordered, and it
had three hand-worked letters in the corner--F. B. A."

"No," I said with truth enough, "she is not a friend of mine." F. B. A.
was Fanny Armstrong, without a chance of doubt!

With another warning to Mrs. Tate as to silence, we started back to
Sunnyside.  So Fanny Armstrong knew of Lucien Wallace, and was
sufficiently interested to visit him and pay for his support. Who was
the child's mother and where was she?  Who was Nina Carrington?  Did
either of them know where Halsey was or what had happened to him?

On the way home we passed the little cemetery where Thomas had been
laid to rest.  I wondered if Thomas could have helped us to find
Halsey, had he lived.  Farther along was the more imposing
burial-ground, where Arnold Armstrong and his father lay in the shadow
of a tall granite shaft.  Of the three, I think Thomas was the only one
sincerely mourned.



CHAPTER XXVIII

A TRAMP AND THE TOOTHACHE

The bitterness toward the dead president of the Traders' Bank seemed to
grow with time.  Never popular, his memory was execrated by people who
had lost nothing, but who were filled with disgust by constantly
hearing new stories of the man's grasping avarice.  The Traders' had
been a favorite bank for small tradespeople, and in its savings
department it had solicited the smallest deposits.  People who had
thought to be self-supporting to the last found themselves confronting
the poorhouse, their two or three hundred dollar savings wiped away.
All bank failures have this element, however, and the directors were
trying to promise twenty per cent. on deposits.

But, like everything else those days, the bank failure was almost
forgotten by Gertrude and myself.  We did not mention Jack Bailey: I
had found nothing to change my impression of his guilt, and Gertrude
knew how I felt.  As for the murder of the bank president's son, I was
of two minds.  One day I thought Gertrude knew or at least suspected
that Jack had done it; the next I feared that it had been Gertrude
herself, that night alone on the circular staircase.  And then the
mother of Lucien Wallace would obtrude herself, and an almost equally
good case might be made against her.  There were times, of course, when
I was disposed to throw all those suspicions aside, and fix definitely
on the unknown, whoever that might be.

I had my greatest disappointment when it came to tracing Nina
Carrington.  The woman had gone without leaving a trace.  Marked as she
was, it should have been easy to follow her, but she was not to be
found.  A description to one of the detectives, on my arrival at home,
had started the ball rolling.  But by night she had not been found.  I
told Gertrude, then, about the telegram to Louise when she had been ill
before; about my visit to Doctor Walker, and my suspicions that Mattie
Bliss and Nina Carrington were the same.  She thought, as I did, that
there was little doubt of it.

I said nothing to her, however, of the detective's suspicions about
Alex.  Little things that I had not noticed at the time now came back
to me.  I had an uncomfortable feeling that perhaps Alex was a spy, and
that by taking him into the house I had played into the enemy's hand.
But at eight o'clock that night Alex himself appeared, and with him a
strange and repulsive individual.  They made a queer pair, for Alex was
almost as disreputable as the tramp, and he had a badly swollen eye.

Gertrude had been sitting listlessly waiting for the evening message
from Mr. Jamieson, but when the singular pair came in, as they did,
without ceremony, she jumped up and stood staring. Winters, the
detective who watched the house at night, followed them, and kept his
eyes sharply on Alex's prisoner.  For that was the situation as it
developed.

He was a tall lanky individual, ragged and dirty, and just now he
looked both terrified and embarrassed.  Alex was too much engrossed to
be either, and to this day I don't think I ever asked him why he went
off without permission the day before.

"Miss Innes," Alex began abruptly, "this man can tell us something very
important about the disappearance of Mr. Innes.  I found him trying to
sell this watch."

He took a watch from his pocket and put it on the table.  It was
Halsey's watch.  I had given it to him on his twenty-first birthday: I
was dumb with apprehension.

"He says he had a pair of cuff-links also, but he sold them--"

"Fer a dollar'n half," put in the disreputable individual hoarsely,
with an eye on the detective.

"He is not--dead?" I implored.  The tramp cleared his throat.

"No'm," he said huskily.  "He was used up pretty bad, but he weren't
dead.  He was comin' to hisself when I"--he stopped and looked at the
detective.  "I didn't steal it, Mr. Winters," he whined.  "I found it
in the road, honest to God, I did."

Mr. Winters paid no attention to him.  He was watching Alex.

"I'd better tell what he told me," Alex broke in.  "It will be quicker.
When Jamieson--when Mr. Jamieson calls up we can start him right.  Mr.
Winters, I found this man trying to sell that watch on Fifth Street.
He offered it to me for three dollars."

"How did you know the watch?" Winters snapped at him.

"I had seen it before, many times.  I used it at night when I was
watching at the foot of the staircase."  The detective was satisfied.
"When he offered the watch to me, I knew it, and I pretended I was
going to buy it.  We went into an alley and I got the watch."  The
tramp shivered.  It was plain how Alex had secured the watch.  "Then--I
got the story from this fellow.  He claims to have seen the whole
affair.  He says he was in an empty car--in the car the automobile
struck."

The tramp broke in here, and told his story, with frequent
interpretations by Alex and Mr. Winters.  He used a strange medley, in
which familiar words took unfamiliar meanings, but it was gradually
made clear to us.

On the night in question the tramp had been "pounding his ear"--this
stuck to me as being graphic--in an empty box-car along the siding at
Casanova.  The train was going west, and due to leave at dawn.  The
tramp and the "brakey" were friendly, and things going well.  About ten
o'clock, perhaps earlier, a terrific crash against the side of the car
roused him.  He tried to open the door, but could not move it.  He got
out of the other side, and just as he did so, he heard some one groan.

The habits of a lifetime made him cautious.  He slipped on to the
bumper of a car and peered through.  An automobile had struck the car,
and stood there on two wheels.  The tail lights were burning, but the
headlights were out.  Two men were stooping over some one who lay on
the ground.  Then the taller of the two started on a dog-trot along the
train looking for an empty.  He found one four cars away and ran back
again.  The two lifted the unconscious man into the empty box-car, and,
getting in themselves, stayed for three or four minutes.  When they
came out, after closing the sliding door, they cut up over the railroad
embankment toward the town.  One, the short one, seemed to limp.

The tramp was wary.  He waited for ten minutes or so.  Some women came
down a path to the road and inspected the automobile.  When they had
gone, he crawled into the box-car and closed the door again.  Then he
lighted a match.  The figure of a man, unconscious, gagged, and with
his hands tied, lay far at the end.

The tramp lost no time; he went through his pockets, found a little
money and the cuff-links, and took them.  Then he loosened the gag--it
had been cruelly tight--and went his way, again closing the door of the
box-car.  Outside on the road he found the watch.  He got on the fast
freight east, some time after, and rode into the city.  He had sold the
cuff-links, but on offering the watch to Alex he had been "copped."

The story, with its cold recital of villainy, was done.  I hardly knew
if I were more anxious, or less.  That it was Halsey, there could be no
doubt.  How badly he was hurt, how far he had been carried, were the
questions that demanded immediate answer.  But it was the first real
information we had had; my boy had not been murdered outright.  But
instead of vague terrors there was now the real fear that he might be
lying in some strange hospital receiving the casual attention commonly
given to the charity cases.  Even this, had we known it, would have
been paradise to the terrible truth.  I wake yet and feel myself cold
and trembling with the horror of Halsey's situation for three days
after his disappearance.

Mr. Winters and Alex disposed of the tramp with a warning.  It was
evident he had told us all he knew.  We had occasion, within a day or
two, to be doubly thankful that we had given him his freedom.  When Mr.
Jamieson telephoned that night we had news for him; he told me what I
had not realized before--that it would not be possible to find Halsey
at once, even with this clue.  The cars by this time, three days, might
be scattered over the Union.

But he said to keep on hoping, that it was the best news we had had.
And in the meantime, consumed with anxiety as we were, things were
happening at the house in rapid succession.

We had one peaceful day--then Liddy took sick in the night.  I went in
when I heard her groaning, and found her with a hot-water bottle to her
face, and her right cheek swollen until it was glassy.

"Toothache?" I asked, not too gently.  "You deserve it.  A woman of
your age, who would rather go around with an exposed nerve in her head
than have the tooth pulled!  It would be over in a moment."

"So would hanging," Liddy protested, from behind the hot-water bottle.

I was hunting around for cotton and laudanum.

"You have a tooth just like it yourself, Miss Rachel," she whimpered.
"And I'm sure Doctor Boyle's been trying to take it out for years."

There was no laudanum, and Liddy made a terrible fuss when I proposed
carbolic acid, just because I had put too much on the cotton once and
burned her mouth.  I'm sure it never did her any permanent harm;
indeed, the doctor said afterward that living on liquid diet had been a
splendid rest for her stomach.  But she would have none of the acid,
and she kept me awake groaning, so at last I got up and went to
Gertrude's door.  To my surprise, it was locked.

I went around by the hall and into her bedroom that way.  The bed was
turned down, and her dressing-gown and night-dress lay ready in the
little room next, but Gertrude was not there.  She had not undressed.

I don't know what terrible thoughts came to me in the minute I stood
there.  Through the door I could hear Liddy grumbling, with a squeal
now and then when the pain stabbed harder.  Then, automatically, I got
the laudanum and went back to her.

It was fully a half-hour before Liddy's groans subsided.  At intervals
I went to the door into the hall and looked out, but I saw and heard
nothing suspicious.  Finally, when Liddy had dropped into a doze, I
even ventured as far as the head of the circular staircase, but there
floated up to me only the even breathing of Winters, the night
detective, sleeping just inside the entry.  And then, far off, I heard
the rapping noise that had lured Louise down the staircase that other
night, two weeks before.  It was over my head, and very faint--three or
four short muffled taps, a pause, and then again, stealthily repeated.

The sound of Mr. Winters' breathing was comforting; with the thought
that there was help within call, something kept me from waking him.  I
did not move for a moment; ridiculous things Liddy had said about a
ghost--I am not at all superstitious, except, perhaps, in the middle of
the night, with everything dark--things like that came back to me.
Almost beside me was the clothes chute.  I could feel it, but I could
see nothing.  As I stood, listening intently, I heard a sound near me.
It was vague, indefinite.  Then it ceased; there was an uneasy movement
and a grunt from the foot of the circular staircase, and silence again.

I stood perfectly still, hardly daring to breathe.

Then I knew I had been right.  Some one was stealthily-passing the head
of the staircase and coming toward me in the dark.  I leaned against
the wall for support--my knees were giving way. The steps were close
now, and suddenly I thought of Gertrude.  Of course it was Gertrude.  I
put out one hand in front of me, but I touched nothing.  My voice
almost refused me, but I managed to gasp out, "Gertrude!"

"Good Lord!" a man's voice exclaimed, just beside me.  And then I
collapsed.  I felt myself going, felt some one catch me, a horrible
nausea--that was all I remembered.

When I came to it was dawn.  I was lying on the bed in Louise's room,
with the cherub on the ceiling staring down at me, and there was a
blanket from my own bed thrown over me.  I felt weak and dizzy, but I
managed to get up and totter to the door.  At the foot of the circular
staircase Mr. Winters was still asleep. Hardly able to stand, I crept
back to my room.  The door into Gertrude's room was no longer locked:
she was sleeping like a tired child.  And in my dressing-room Liddy
hugged a cold hot-water bottle, and mumbled in her sleep.

"There's some things you can't hold with hand cuffs," she was muttering
thickly.



CHAPTER XXIX

A SCRAP OF PAPER

For the first time in twenty years, I kept my bed that day. Liddy was
alarmed to the point of hysteria, and sent for Doctor Stewart just
after breakfast.  Gertrude spent the morning with me, reading
something--I forget what.  I was too busy with my thoughts to listen.
I had said nothing to the two detectives. If Mr. Jamieson had been
there, I should have told him everything, but I could not go to these
strange men and tell them my niece had been missing in the middle of
the night; that she had not gone to bed at all; that while I was
searching for her through the house, I had met a stranger who, when I
fainted, had carried me into a room and left me there, to get better or
not, as it might happen.

The whole situation was terrible: had the issues been less vital, it
would have been absurd.  Here we were, guarded day and night by private
detectives, with an extra man to watch the grounds, and yet we might as
well have lived in a Japanese paper house, for all the protection we
had.

And there was something else: the man I had met in the darkness had
been even more startled than I, and about his voice, when he muttered
his muffled exclamation, there was something vaguely familiar.  All
that morning, while Gertrude read aloud, and Liddy watched for the
doctor, I was puzzling over that voice, without result.

And there were other things, too.  I wondered what Gertrude's absence
from her room had to do with it all, or if it had any connection.  I
tried to think that she had heard the rapping noises before I did and
gone to investigate, but I'm afraid I was a moral coward that day.  I
could not ask her.

Perhaps the diversion was good for me.  It took my mind from Halsey,
and the story we had heard the night before.  The day, however, was a
long vigil, with every ring of the telephone full of possibilities.
Doctor Walker came up, some time just after luncheon, and asked for me.

"Go down and see him," I instructed Gertrude.  "Tell him I am out--for
mercy's sake don't say I'm sick.  Find out what he wants, and from this
time on, instruct the servants that he is not to be admitted.  I loathe
that man."

Gertrude came back very soon, her face rather flushed.

"He came to ask us to get out," she said, picking up her book with a
jerk.  "He says Louise Armstrong wants to come here, now that she is
recovering."

"And what did you say?"

"I said we were very sorry we could not leave, but we would be
delighted to have Louise come up here with us.  He looked daggers at
me.  And he wanted to know if we would recommend Eliza as a cook.  He
has brought a patient, a man, out from town, and is increasing his
establishment--that's the way he put it."

"I wish him joy of Eliza," I said tartly.  "Did he ask for Halsey?"

"Yes.  I told him that we were on the track last night, and that it was
only a question of time.  He said he was glad, although he didn't
appear to be, but he said not to be too sanguine."

"Do you know what I believe?" I asked.  "I believe, as firmly as I
believe anything, that Doctor Walker knows something about Halsey, and
that he could put his finger on him, if he wanted to."

There were several things that day that bewildered me.  About three
o'clock Mr. Jamieson telephoned from the Casanova station and Warner
went down to meet him.  I got up and dressed hastily, and the detective
was shown up to my sitting-room.

"No news?" I asked, as he entered.  He tried to look encouraging,
without success.  I noticed that he looked tired and dusty, and,
although he was ordinarily impeccable in his appearance, it was clear
that he was at least two days from a razor.

"It won't be long now, Miss Innes," he said.  "I have come out here on
a peculiar errand, which I will tell you about later. First, I want to
ask some questions.  Did any one come out here yesterday to repair the
telephone, and examine the wires on the roof?"

"Yes," I said promptly; "but it was not the telephone.  He said the
wiring might have caused the fire at the stable.  I went up with him
myself, but he only looked around."

Mr. Jamieson smiled.

"Good for you!" he applauded.  "Don't allow any one in the house that
you don't trust, and don't trust anybody.  All are not electricians who
wear rubber gloves."

He refused to explain further, but he got a slip of paper out of his
pocketbook and opened it carefully.

"Listen," he said.  "You heard this before and scoffed.  In the light
of recent developments I want you to read it again.  You are a clever
woman, Miss Innes.  Just as surely as I sit here, there is something in
this house that is wanted very anxiously by a number of people.  The
lines are closing up, Miss Innes."

The paper was the one he had found among Arnold Armstrong's effects,
and I read it again:


"----by altering the plans for----rooms, may be possible.  The best
way, in my opinion, would be to----the plan for----in one of
the----rooms----chimney."


"I think I understand," I said slowly.  "Some one is searching for the
secret room, and the invaders--"

"And the holes in the plaster--"

"Have been in the progress of his--"

"Or her--investigations."

"Her?" I asked.

"Miss Innes," the detective said, getting up, "I believe that somewhere
in the walls of this house is hidden some of the money, at least, from
the Traders' Bank.  I believe, just as surely, that young Walker
brought home from California the knowledge of something of the sort
and, failing in his effort to reinstall Mrs. Armstrong and her daughter
here, he, or a confederate, has tried to break into the house.  On two
occasions I think he succeeded."

"On three, at least," I corrected.  And then I told him about the night
before.  "I have been thinking hard," I concluded, "and I do not
believe the man at the head of the circular staircase was Doctor
Walker.  I don't think he could have got in, and the voice was not his."

Mr. Jamieson got up and paced the floor, his hands behind him.

"There is something else that puzzles me," he said, stepping before me.
"Who and what is the woman Nina Carrington?  If it was she who came
here as Mattie Bliss, what did she tell Halsey that sent him racing to
Doctor Walker's, and then to Miss Armstrong?  If we could find that
woman we would have the whole thing."

"Mr. Jamieson, did you ever think that Paul Armstrong might not have
died a natural death?"

"That is the thing we are going to try to find out," he replied.  And
then Gertrude came in, announcing a man below to see Mr. Jamieson.

"I want you present at this interview, Miss Innes," he said. "May Riggs
come up?  He has left Doctor Walker and he has something he wants to
tell us."

Riggs came into the room diffidently, but Mr. Jamieson put him at his
ease.  He kept a careful eye on me, however, and slid into a chair by
the door when he was asked to sit down.

"Now, Riggs," began Mr. Jamieson kindly.  "You are to say what you have
to say before this lady."

"You promised you'd keep it quiet, Mr. Jamieson."  Riggs plainly did
not trust me.  There was nothing friendly in the glance he turned on me.

"Yes, yes.  You will be protected.  But, first of all, did you bring
what you promised?"

Riggs produced a roll of papers from under his coat, and handed them
over.  Mr. Jamieson examined them with lively satisfaction, and passed
them to me.  "The blue-prints of Sunnyside," he said. "What did I tell
you?  Now, Riggs, we are ready."

"I'd never have come to you, Mr. Jamieson," he began, "if it hadn't
been for Miss Armstrong.  When Mr. Innes was spirited away, like, and
Miss Louise got sick because of it, I thought things had gone far
enough.  I'd done some things for the doctor before that wouldn't just
bear looking into, but I turned a bit squeamish."

"Did you help with that?" I asked, leaning forward.

"No, ma'm.  I didn't even know of it until the next day, when it came
out in the Casanova Weekly Ledger.  But I know who did it, all right.
I'd better start at the beginning.

"When Doctor Walker went away to California with the Armstrong family,
there was talk in the town that when he came back he would be married
to Miss Armstrong, and we all expected it. First thing I knew, I got a
letter from him, in the west.  He seemed to be excited, and he said
Miss Armstrong had taken a sudden notion to go home and he sent me some
money.  I was to watch for her, to see if she went to Sunnyside, and
wherever she was, not to lose sight of her until he got home.  I traced
her to the lodge, and I guess I scared you on the drive one night, Miss
Innes."

"And Rosie!" I ejaculated.

Riggs grinned sheepishly.

"I only wanted to make sure Miss Louise was there.  Rosie started to
run, and I tried to stop her and tell her some sort of a story to
account for my being there.  But she wouldn't wait."

"And the broken china--in the basket?"

"Well, broken china's death to rubber tires," he said.  "I hadn't any
complaint against you people here, and the Dragon Fly was a good car."

So Rosie's highwayman was explained.

"Well, I telegraphed the doctor where Miss Louise was and I kept an eye
on her.  Just a day or so before they came home with the body, I got
another letter, telling me to watch for a woman who had been pitted
with smallpox.  Her name was Carrington, and the doctor made things
pretty strong.  If I found any such woman loafing around, I was not to
lose sight of her for a minute until the doctor got back.

"Well, I would have had my hands full, but the other woman didn't show
up for a good while, and when she did the doctor was home."

"Riggs," I asked suddenly, "did you get into this house a day or two
after I took it, at night?"

"I did not, Miss Innes.  I have never been in the house before. Well,
the Carrington woman didn't show up until the night Mr. Halsey
disappeared.  She came to the office late, and the doctor was out.  She
waited around, walking the floor and working herself into a passion.
When the doctor didn't come back, she was in an awful way.  She wanted
me to hunt him, and when he didn't appear, she called him names; said
he couldn't fool her. There was murder being done, and she would see
him swing for it.

"She struck me as being an ugly customer, and when she left, about
eleven o'clock, and went across to the Armstrong place, I was not far
behind her.  She walked all around the house first, looking up at the
windows.  Then she rang the bell, and the minute the door was opened
she was through it, and into the hall."

"How long did she stay?"

"That's the queer part of it," Riggs said eagerly.  "She didn't come
out that night at all.  I went to bed at daylight, and that was the
last I heard of her until the next day, when I saw her on a truck at
the station, covered with a sheet.  She'd been struck by the express
and you would hardly have known her--dead, of course.  I think she
stayed all night in the Armstrong house, and the agent said she was
crossing the track to take the up-train to town when the express struck
her."

"Another circle!" I exclaimed.  "Then we are just where we started."

"Not so bad as that, Miss Innes," Riggs said eagerly.  "Nina Carrington
came from the town in California where Mr. Armstrong died.  Why was the
doctor so afraid of her?  The Carrington woman knew something.  I lived
with Doctor Walker seven years, and I know him well.  There are few
things he is afraid of.  I think he killed Mr. Armstrong out in the
west somewhere, that's what I think.  What else he did I don't
know--but he dismissed me and pretty nearly throttled me--for telling
Mr. Jamieson here about Mr. Innes' having been at his office the night
he disappeared, and about my hearing them quarreling."

"What was it Warner overheard the woman say to Mr. Innes, in the
library?" the detective asked me.

"She said 'I knew there was something wrong from the start.  A man
isn't well one day and dead the next without some reason.'"

How perfectly it all seemed to fit!



CHAPTER XXX

WHEN CHURCHYARDS YAWN

It was on Wednesday Riggs told us the story of his connection with some
incidents that had been previously unexplained.  Halsey had been gone
since the Friday night before, and with the passage of each day I felt
that his chances were lessening.  I knew well enough that he might be
carried thousands of miles in the box-car, locked in, perhaps, without
water or food.  I had read of cases where bodies had been found locked
in cars on isolated sidings in the west, and my spirits went down with
every hour.

His recovery was destined to be almost as sudden as his disappearance,
and was due directly to the tramp Alex had brought to Sunnyside.  It
seems the man was grateful for his release, and when he learned some
thing of Halsey's whereabouts from another member of his
fraternity--for it is a fraternity--he was prompt in letting us know.

On Wednesday evening Mr. Jamieson, who had been down at the Armstrong
house trying to see Louise--and failing--was met near the gate at
Sunnyside by an individual precisely as repulsive and unkempt as the
one Alex had captured.  The man knew the detective, and he gave him a
piece of dirty paper, on which was scrawled the words--"He's at City
Hospital, Johnsville."  The tramp who brought the paper pretended to
know nothing, except this: the paper had been passed along from a
"hobo" in Johnsville, who seemed to know the information would be
valuable to us.

Again the long distance telephone came into requisition.  Mr. Jamieson
called the hospital, while we crowded around him.  And when there was
no longer any doubt that it was Halsey, and that he would probably
recover, we all laughed and cried together.  I am sure I kissed Liddy,
and I have had terrible moments since when I seem to remember kissing
Mr. Jamieson, too, in the excitement.

Anyhow, by eleven o'clock that night Gertrude was on her way to
Johnsville, three hundred and eighty miles away, accompanied by Rosie.
The domestic force was now down to Mary Anne and Liddy, with the
under-gardener's wife coming every day to help out. Fortunately, Warner
and the detectives were keeping bachelor hall in the lodge.  Out of
deference to Liddy they washed their dishes once a day, and they
concocted queer messes, according to their several abilities.  They had
one triumph that they ate regularly for breakfast, and that clung to
their clothes and their hair the rest of the day.  It was bacon,
hardtack and onions, fried together.  They were almost pathetically
grateful, however, I noticed, for an occasional broiled tenderloin.

It was not until Gertrude and Rosie had gone and Sunnyside had settled
down for the night, with Winters at the foot of the staircase, that Mr.
Jamieson broached a subject he had evidently planned before he came.

"Miss Innes," he said, stopping me as I was about to go to my room
up-stairs, "how are your nerves tonight?"

"I have none," I said happily.  "With Halsey found, my troubles have
gone."

"I mean," he persisted, "do you feel as though you could go through
with something rather unusual?"

"The most unusual thing I can think of would be a peaceful night.  But
if anything is going to occur, don't dare to let me miss it."

"Something is going to occur," he said.  "And you're the only woman I
can think of that I can take along."  He looked at his watch.  "Don't
ask me any questions, Miss Innes.  Put on heavy shoes, and some old
dark clothes, and make up your mind not to be surprised at anything."

Liddy was sleeping the sleep of the just when I went up-stairs, and I
hunted out my things cautiously.  The detective was waiting in the
hall, and I was astonished to see Doctor Stewart with him.

They were talking confidentially together, but when I came down they
ceased.  There were a few preparations to be made: the locks to be gone
over, Winters to be instructed as to renewed vigilance, and then, after
extinguishing the hall light, we crept, in the darkness, through the
front door, and into the night.

I asked no questions.  I felt that they were doing me honor in making
me one of the party, and I would show them I could be as silent as
they.  We went across the fields, passing through the woods that
reached almost to the ruins of the stable, going over stiles now and
then, and sometimes stepping over low fences. Once only somebody spoke,
and then it was an emphatic bit of profanity from Doctor Stewart when
he ran into a wire fence.

We were joined at the end of five minutes by another man, who fell into
step with the doctor silently.  He carried something over his shoulder
which I could not make out.  In this way we walked for perhaps twenty
minutes.  I had lost all sense of direction: I merely stumbled along in
silence, allowing Mr. Jamieson to guide me this way or that as the path
demanded.  I hardly know what I expected.  Once, when through a
miscalculation I jumped a little short over a ditch and landed above my
shoe-tops in the water and ooze, I remember wondering if this were
really I, and if I had ever tasted life until that summer.  I walked
along with the water sloshing in my boots, and I was actually cheerful.
I remember whispering to Mr. Jamieson that I had never seen the stars
so lovely, and that it was a mistake, when the Lord had made the night
so beautiful, to sleep through it!

The doctor was puffing somewhat when we finally came to a halt. I
confess that just at that minute even Sunnyside seemed a cheerful spot.
We had paused at the edge of a level cleared place, bordered all around
with primly trimmed evergreen trees.  Between them I caught a glimpse
of starlight shining down on rows of white headstones and an occasional
more imposing monument, or towering shaft.  In spite of myself, I drew
my breath in sharply.  We were on the edge of the Casanova churchyard.

I saw now both the man who had joined the party and the implements he
carried.  It was Alex, armed with two long-handled spades.  After the
first shock of surprise, I flatter myself I was both cool and quiet.
We went in single file between the rows of headstones, and although,
when I found myself last, I had an instinctive desire to keep looking
back over my shoulder, I found that, the first uneasiness past, a
cemetery at night is much the same as any other country place, filled
with vague shadows and unexpected noises.  Once, indeed--but Mr.
Jamieson said it was an owl, and I tried to believe him.

In the shadow of the Armstrong granite shaft we stopped.  I think the
doctor wanted to send me back.

"It's no place for a woman," I heard him protesting angrily.  But the
detective said something about witnesses, and the doctor only came over
and felt my pulse.

"Anyhow, I don't believe you're any worse off here than you would be in
that nightmare of a house," he said finally, and put his coat on the
steps of the shaft for me to sit on.

There is an air of finality about a grave: one watches the earth thrown
in, with the feeling that this is the end.  Whatever has gone before,
whatever is to come in eternity, that particular temple of the soul has
been given back to the elements from which it came.  Thus, there is a
sense of desecration, of a reversal of the everlasting fitness of
things, in resurrecting a body from its mother clay.  And yet that
night, in the Casanova churchyard, I sat quietly by, and watched Alex
and Mr. Jamieson steaming over their work, without a single qualm,
except the fear of detection.

The doctor kept a keen lookout, but no one appeared.  Once in a while
he came over to me, and gave me a reassuring pat on the shoulder.

"I never expected to come to this," he said once.  "There's one thing
sure--I'll not be suspected of complicity.  A doctor is generally
supposed to be handier at burying folks than at digging them up."

The uncanny moment came when Alex and Jamieson tossed the spades on the
grass, and I confess I hid my face.  There was a period of stress, I
think, while the heavy coffin was being raised.  I felt that my
composure was going, and, for fear I would shriek, I tried to think of
something else--what time Gertrude would reach Halsey--anything but the
grisly reality that lay just beyond me on the grass.

And then I heard a low exclamation from the detective and I felt the
pressure of the doctor's fingers on my arm.

"Now, Miss Innes," he said gently.  "If you will come over--"

I held on to him frantically, and somehow I got there and looked down.
The lid of the casket had been raised and a silver plate on it proved
we had made no mistake.  But the face that showed in the light of the
lantern was a face I had never seen before.  The man who lay before us
was not Paul Armstrong!



CHAPTER XXXI

BETWEEN TWO FIREPLACES

What with the excitement of the discovery, the walk home under the
stars in wet shoes and draggled skirts, and getting up-stairs and
undressed without rousing Liddy, I was completely used up. What to do
with my boots was the greatest puzzle of all, there being no place in
the house safe from Liddy, until I decided to slip upstairs the next
morning and drop them into the hole the "ghost" had made in the
trunk-room wall.

I went asleep as soon as I reached this decision, and in my dreams I
lived over again the events of the night.  Again I saw the group around
the silent figure on the grass, and again, as had happened at the
grave, I heard Alex's voice, tense and triumphant:

"Then we've got them," he said.  Only, in my dreams, he said it over
and over until he seemed to shriek it in my ears.

I wakened early, in spite of my fatigue, and lay there thinking. Who
was Alex?  I no longer believed that he was a gardener.  Who was the
man whose body we had resurrected?  And where was Paul Armstrong?
Probably living safely in some extraditionless country on the fortune
he had stolen.  Did Louise and her mother know of the shameful and
wicked deception?  What had Thomas known, and Mrs. Watson?  Who was
Nina Carrington?

This last question, it seemed to me, was answered.  In some way the
woman had learned of the substitution, and had tried to use her
knowledge for blackmail.  Nina Carrington's own story died with her,
but, however it happened, it was clear that she had carried her
knowledge to Halsey the afternoon Gertrude and I were looking for clues
to the man I had shot on the east veranda. Halsey had been half crazed
by what he heard; it was evident that Louise was marrying Doctor Walker
to keep the shameful secret, for her mother's sake.  Halsey, always
reckless, had gone at once to Doctor Walker and denounced him.  There
had been a scene, and he left on his way to the station to meet and
notify Mr. Jamieson of what he had learned.  The doctor was active
mentally and physically.  Accompanied perhaps by Riggs, who had shown
himself not overscrupulous until he quarreled with his employer, he had
gone across to the railroad embankment, and, by jumping in front of the
car, had caused Halsey to swerve.  The rest of the story we knew.

That was my reconstructed theory of that afternoon and evening: it was
almost correct--not quite.

There was a telegram that morning from Gertrude.


"Halsey conscious and improving.  Probably home in day or so.
                                            GERTRUDE."


With Halsey found and improving in health, and with at last something
to work on, I began that day, Thursday, with fresh courage.  As Mr.
Jamieson had said, the lines were closing up. That I was to be caught
and almost finished in the closing was happily unknown to us all.

It was late when I got up.  I lay in my bed, looking around the four
walls of the room, and trying to imagine behind what one of them a
secret chamber might lie.  Certainly, in daylight, Sunnyside deserved
its name: never was a house more cheery and open, less sinister in
general appearance.  There was not a corner apparently that was not
open and above-board, and yet, somewhere behind its handsomely papered
walls I believed firmly that there lay a hidden room, with all the
possibilities it would involve.

I made a mental note to have the house measured during the day, to
discover any discrepancy between the outer and inner walls, and I tried
to recall again the exact wording of the paper Jamieson had found.

The slip had said "chimney."  It was the only clue, and a house as
large as Sunnyside was full of them.  There was an open fireplace in my
dressing-room, but none in the bedroom, and as I lay there, looking
around, I thought of something that made me sit up suddenly.  The
trunk-room, just over my head, had an open fireplace and a brick
chimney, and yet, there was nothing of the kind in my room.  I got out
of bed and examined the opposite wall closely.  There was apparently no
flue, and I knew there was none in the hall just beneath.  The house
was heated by steam, as I have said before.  In the living-room was a
huge open fireplace, but it was on the other side.

Why did the trunk-room have both a radiator and an open fireplace?
Architects were not usually erratic!  It was not fifteen minutes before
I was up-stairs, armed with a tape-measure in lieu of a foot-rule,
eager to justify Mr. Jamieson's opinion of my intelligence, and firmly
resolved not to tell him of my suspicion until I had more than theory
to go on.  The hole in the trunk-room wall still yawned there, between
the chimney and the outer wall.  I examined it again, with no new
result. The space between the brick wall and the plaster and lath one,
however, had a new significance.  The hole showed only one side of the
chimney, and I determined to investigate what lay in the space on the
other side of the mantel.

I worked feverishly.  Liddy had gone to the village to market, it being
her firm belief that the store people sent short measure unless she
watched the scales, and that, since the failure of the Traders' Bank,
we must watch the corners; and I knew that what I wanted to do must be
done before she came back.  I had no tools, but after rummaging around
I found a pair of garden scissors and a hatchet, and thus armed, I set
to work.  The plaster came out easily: the lathing was more obstinate.
It gave under the blows, only to spring back into place again, and the
necessity for caution made it doubly hard.

I had a blister on my palm when at last the hatchet went through and
fell with what sounded like the report of a gun to my overstrained
nerves.  I sat on a trunk, waiting to hear Liddy fly up the stairs,
with the household behind her, like the tail of a comet.  But nothing
happened, and with a growing feeling of uncanniness I set to work
enlarging the opening.

The result was absolutely nil.  When I could hold a lighted candle in
the opening, I saw precisely what I had seen on the other side of the
chimney--a space between the true wall and the false one, possibly
seven feet long and about three feet wide. It was in no sense of the
word a secret chamber, and it was evident it had not been disturbed
since the house was built.  It was a supreme disappointment.

It had been Mr. Jamieson's idea that the hidden room, if there was one,
would be found somewhere near the circular staircase. In fact, I knew
that he had once investigated the entire length of the clothes chute,
hanging to a rope, with this in view.  I was reluctantly about to
concede that he had been right, when my eyes fell on the mantel and
fireplace.  The latter had evidently never been used: it was closed
with a metal fire front, and only when the front refused to move, and
investigation showed that it was not intended to be moved, did my
spirits revive.

I hurried into the next room.  Yes, sure enough, there was a similar
mantel and fireplace there, similarly closed.  In both rooms the
chimney flue extended well out from the wall.  I measured with the
tape-line, my hands trembling so that I could scarcely hold it.  They
extended two feet and a half into each room, which, with the three feet
of space between the two partitions, made eight feet to be accounted
for.  Eight feet in one direction and almost seven in the other--what a
chimney it was!

But I had only located the hidden room.  I was not in it, and no amount
of pressing on the carving of the wooden mantels, no search of the
floors for loose boards, none of the customary methods availed at all.
That there was a means of entrance, and probably a simple one, I could
be certain.  But what?  What would I find if I did get in?  Was the
detective right, and were the bonds and money from the Traders' Bank
there?  Or was our whole theory wrong?  Would not Paul Armstrong have
taken his booty with him?  If he had not, and if Doctor Walker was in
the secret, he would have known how to enter the chimney room.
Then--who had dug the other hole in the false partition?



CHAPTER XXXII

ANNE WATSON'S STORY

Liddy discovered the fresh break in the trunk-room wall while we were
at luncheon, and ran shrieking down the stairs.  She maintained that,
as she entered, unseen hands had been digging at the plaster; that they
had stopped when she went in, and she had felt a gust of cold damp air.
In support of her story she carried in my wet and muddy boots, that I
had unluckily forgotten to hide, and held them out to the detective and
myself.

"What did I tell you?" she said dramatically.  "Look at 'em. They're
yours, Miss Rachel--and covered with mud and soaked to the tops.  I
tell you, you can scoff all you like; something has been wearing your
shoes.  As sure as you sit there, there's the smell of the graveyard on
them.  How do we know they weren't tramping through the Casanova
churchyard last night, and sitting on the graves!"

Mr. Jamieson almost choked to death.  "I wouldn't be at all surprised
if they were doing that very thing, Liddy," he said, when he got his
breath.  "They certainly look like it."

I think the detective had a plan, on which he was working, and which
was meant to be a coup.  But things went so fast there was no time to
carry it into effect.  The first thing that occurred was a message from
the Charity Hospital that Mrs. Watson was dying, and had asked for me.
I did not care much about going.  There is a sort of melancholy
pleasure to be had out of a funeral, with its pomp and ceremony, but I
shrank from a death-bed. However, Liddy got out the black things and
the crape veil I keep for such occasions, and I went.  I left Mr.
Jamieson and the day detective going over every inch of the circular
staircase, pounding, probing and measuring.  I was inwardly elated to
think of the surprise I was going to give them that night; as it turned
out, I DID surprise them almost into spasms.

I drove from the train to the Charity Hospital, and was at once taken
to a ward.  There, in a gray-walled room in a high iron bed, lay Mrs.
Watson.  She was very weak, and she only opened her eyes and looked at
me when I sat down beside her.  I was conscience-stricken.  We had been
so engrossed that I had left this poor creature to die without even a
word of sympathy.

The nurse gave her a stimulant, and in a little while she was able to
talk.  So broken and half-coherent, however, was her story that I shall
tell it in my own way.  In an hour from the time I entered the Charity
Hospital, I had heard a sad and pitiful narrative, and had seen a woman
slip into the unconsciousness that is only a step from death.

Briefly, then, the housekeeper's story was this:

She was almost forty years old, and had been the sister-mother of a
large family of children.  One by one they had died, and been buried
beside their parents in a little town in the Middle West. There was
only one sister left, the baby, Lucy.  On her the older girl had
lavished all the love of an impulsive and emotional nature.  When Anne,
the elder, was thirty-two and Lucy was nineteen, a young man had come
to the town.  He was going east, after spending the summer at a
celebrated ranch in Wyoming--one of those places where wealthy men send
worthless and dissipated sons, for a season of temperance, fresh air
and hunting.  The sisters, of course, knew nothing of this, and the
young man's ardor rather carried them away.  In a word, seven years
before, Lucy Haswell had married a young man whose name was given as
Aubrey Wallace.

Anne Haswell had married a carpenter in her native town, and was a
widow.  For three months everything went fairly well.  Aubrey took his
bride to Chicago, where they lived at a hotel.  Perhaps the very
unsophistication that had charmed him in Valley Mill jarred on him in
the city.  He had been far from a model husband, even for the three
months, and when he disappeared Anne was almost thankful.  It was
different with the young wife, however. She drooped and fretted, and on
the birth of her baby boy, she had died.  Anne took the child, and
named him Lucien.

Anne had had no children of her own, and on Lucien she had lavished all
her aborted maternal instinct.  On one thing she was determined,
however: that was that Aubrey Wallace should educate his boy.  It was a
part of her devotion to the child that she should be ambitious for him:
he must have every opportunity.  And so she came east.  She drifted
around, doing plain sewing and keeping a home somewhere always for the
boy.  Finally, however, she realized that her only training had been
domestic, and she put the boy in an Episcopalian home, and secured the
position of housekeeper to the Armstrongs.  There she found Lucien's
father, this time under his own name.  It was Arnold Armstrong.

I gathered that there was no particular enmity at that time in Anne's
mind.  She told him of the boy, and threatened exposure if he did not
provide for him.  Indeed, for a time, he did so.  Then he realized that
Lucien was the ruling passion in this lonely woman's life.  He found
out where the child was hidden, and threatened to take him away.  Anne
was frantic.  The positions became reversed.  Where Arnold had given
money for Lucien's support, as the years went on he forced money from
Anne Watson instead until she was always penniless.  The lower Arnold
sank in the scale, the heavier his demands became.  With the rupture
between him and his family, things were worse.  Anne took the child
from the home and hid him in a farmhouse near Casanova, on the
Claysburg road.  There she went sometimes to see the boy, and there he
had taken fever.  The people were Germans, and he called the farmer's
wife Grossmutter.  He had grown into a beautiful boy, and he was all
Anne had to live for.


The Armstrongs left for California, and Arnold's persecutions began
anew.  He was furious over the child's disappearance and she was afraid
he would do her some hurt.  She left the big house and went down to the
lodge.  When I had rented Sunnyside, however, she had thought the
persecutions would stop.  She had applied for the position of
housekeeper, and secured it.

That had been on Saturday.  That night Louise arrived unexpectedly.
Thomas sent for Mrs. Watson and then went for Arnold Armstrong at the
Greenwood Club.  Anne had been fond of Louise--she reminded her of
Lucy.  She did not know what the trouble was, but Louise had been in a
state of terrible excitement.  Mrs. Watson tried to hide from Arnold,
but he was ugly.  He left the lodge and went up to the house about
two-thirty, was admitted at the east entrance and came out again very
soon.  Something had occurred, she didn't know what; but very soon Mr.
Innes and another gentleman left, using the car.

Thomas and she had got Louise quiet, and a little before three, Mrs.
Watson started up to the house.  Thomas had a key to the east entry,
and gave it to her.

On the way across the lawn she was confronted by Arnold, who for some
reason was determined to get into the house.  He had a golf-stick in
his hand, that he had picked up somewhere, and on her refusal he had
struck her with it.  One hand had been badly cut, and it was that,
poisoning having set in, which was killing her.  She broke away in a
frenzy of rage and fear, and got into the house while Gertrude and Jack
Bailey were at the front door. She went up-stairs, hardly knowing what
she was doing. Gertrude's door was open, and Halsey's revolver lay
there on the bed.  She picked it up and turning, ran part way down the
circular staircase.  She could hear Arnold fumbling at the lock
outside.  She slipped down quietly and opened the door: he was inside
before she had got back to the stairs.  It was quite dark, but she
could see his white shirt-bosom.  From the fourth step she fired.  As
he fell, somebody in the billiard-room screamed and ran.  When the
alarm was raised, she had had no time to get up-stairs: she hid in the
west wing until every one was down on the lower floor.  Then she
slipped upstairs, and threw the revolver out of an upper window, going
down again in time to admit the men from the Greenwood Club.

If Thomas had suspected, he had never told.  When she found the hand
Arnold had injured was growing worse, she gave the address of Lucien at
Richfield to the old man, and almost a hundred dollars.  The money was
for Lucien's board until she recovered.  She had sent for me to ask me
if I would try to interest the Armstrongs in the child.  When she found
herself growing worse, she had written to Mrs. Armstrong, telling her
nothing but that Arnold's legitimate child was at Richfield, and
imploring her to recognize him.  She was dying: the boy was an
Armstrong, and entitled to his father's share of the estate.  The
papers were in her trunk at Sunnyside, with letters from the dead man
that would prove what she said.  She was going; she would not be judged
by earthly laws; and somewhere else perhaps Lucy would plead for her.
It was she who had crept down the circular staircase, drawn by a
magnet, that night Mr. Jamieson had heard some one there.  Pursued, she
had fled madly, anywhere--through the first door she came to.  She had
fallen down the clothes chute, and been saved by the basket beneath.  I
could have cried with relief; then it had not been Gertrude, after all!

That was the story.  Sad and tragic though it was, the very telling of
it seemed to relieve the dying woman.  She did not know that Thomas was
dead, and I did not tell her.  I promised to look after little Lucien,
and sat with her until the intervals of consciousness grew shorter and
finally ceased altogether.  She died that night.



CHAPTER XXXIII

AT THE FOOT OF THE STAIRS

As I drove rapidly up to the house from Casanova Station in the hack, I
saw the detective Burns loitering across the street from the Walker
place.  So Jamieson was putting the screws on--lightly now, but ready
to give them a twist or two, I felt certain, very soon.

The house was quiet.  Two steps of the circular staircase had been
pried off, without result, and beyond a second message from Gertrude,
that Halsey insisted on coming home and they would arrive that night,
there was nothing new.  Mr. Jamieson, having failed to locate the
secret room, had gone to the village.  I learned afterwards that he
called at Doctor Walker's, under pretense of an attack of acute
indigestion, and before he left, had inquired about the evening trains
to the city.  He said he had wasted a lot of time on the case, and a
good bit of the mystery was in my imagination!  The doctor was under
the impression that the house was guarded day and night.  Well, give a
place a reputation like that, and you don't need a guard at all,--thus
Jamieson.  And sure enough, late in the afternoon, the two private
detectives, accompanied by Mr. Jamieson, walked down the main street of
Casanova and took a city-bound train.

That they got off at the next station and walked back again to
Sunnyside at dusk, was not known at the time.  Personally, I knew
nothing of either move; I had other things to absorb me at that time.

Liddy brought me some tea while I rested after my trip, and on the tray
was a small book from the Casanova library.  It was called The Unseen
World and had a cheerful cover on which a half-dozen sheeted figures
linked hands around a headstone.

At this point in my story, Halsey always says:  "Trust a woman to add
two and two together, and make six."  To which I retort that if two and
two plus X make six, then to discover the unknown quantity is the
simplest thing in the world.  That a houseful of detectives missed it
entirely was because they were busy trying to prove that two and two
make four.

The depression due to my visit to the hospital left me at the prospect
of seeing Halsey again that night.  It was about five o'clock when
Liddy left me for a nap before dinner, having put me into a gray silk
dressing-gown and a pair of slippers.  I listened to her retreating
footsteps, and as soon as she was safely below stairs, I went up to the
trunk-room.  The place had not been disturbed, and I proceeded at once
to try to discover the entrance to the hidden room.  The openings on
either side, as I have said, showed nothing but perhaps three feet of
brick wall.

There was no sign of an entrance--no levers, no hinges, to give a hint.
Either the mantel or the roof, I decided, and after a half-hour at the
mantel, productive of absolutely no result, I decided to try the roof.

I am not fond of a height.  The few occasions on which I have climbed a
step-ladder have always left me dizzy and weak in the knees.  The top
of the Washington monument is as impossible to me as the elevation of
the presidential chair.  And yet--I climbed out on to the Sunnyside
roof without a second's hesitation.  Like a dog on a scent, like my
bearskin progenitor, with his spear and his wild boar, to me now there
was the lust of the chase, the frenzy of pursuit, the dust of battle.
I got quite a little of the latter on me as I climbed from the
unfinished ball-room out through a window to the roof of the east wing
of the building, which was only two stories in height.

Once out there, access to the top of the main building was rendered
easy--at least it looked easy--by a small vertical iron ladder,
fastened to the wall outside of the ball-room, and perhaps twelve feet
high.  The twelve feet looked short from below, but they were difficult
to climb.  I gathered my silk gown around me, and succeeded finally in
making the top of the ladder.

Once there, however, I was completely out of breath.  I sat down, my
feet on the top rung, and put my hair pins in more securely, while the
wind bellowed my dressing-gown out like a sail.  I had torn a great
strip of the silk loose, and now I ruthlessly finished the destruction
of my gown by jerking it free and tying it around my head.

From far below the smallest sounds came up with peculiar distinctness.
I could hear the paper boy whistling down the drive, and I heard
something else.  I heard the thud of a stone, and a spit, followed by a
long and startled meiou from Beulah. I forgot my fear of a height, and
advanced boldly almost to the edge of the roof.

It was half-past six by that time, and growing dusk.

"You boy, down there!" I called.

The paper boy turned and looked around.  Then, seeing nobody, he raised
his eyes.  It was a moment before he located me: when he did, he stood
for one moment as if paralyzed, then he gave a horrible yell, and
dropping his papers, bolted across the lawn to the road without
stopping to look around.  Once he fell, and his impetus was so great
that he turned an involuntary somersault. He was up and off again
without any perceptible pause, and he leaped the hedge--which I am sure
under ordinary stress would have been a feat for a man.

I am glad in this way to settle the Gray Lady story, which is still a
choice morsel in Casanova.  I believe the moral deduced by the village
was that it is always unlucky to throw a stone at a black cat.

With Johnny Sweeny a cloud of dust down the road, and the dinner-hour
approaching, I hurried on with my investigations.  Luckily, the roof
was flat, and I was able to go over every inch of it. But the result
was disappointing; no trap-door revealed itself, no glass window;
nothing but a couple of pipes two inches across, and standing perhaps
eighteen inches high and three feet apart, with a cap to prevent rain
from entering and raised to permit the passage of air.  I picked up a
pebble from the roof and dropped it down, listening with my ear at one
of the pipes. I could hear it strike on something with a sharp,
metallic sound, but it was impossible for me to tell how far it had
gone.

I gave up finally and went down the ladder again, getting in through
the ball-room window without being observed.  I went back at once to
the trunk-room, and, sitting down on a box, I gave my mind, as
consistently as I could, to the problem before me.  If the pipes in the
roof were ventilators to the secret room, and there was no trap-door
above, the entrance was probably in one of the two rooms between which
it lay--unless, indeed, the room had been built, and the opening then
closed with a brick and mortar wall.

The mantel fascinated me.  Made of wood and carved, the more I looked
the more I wondered that I had not noticed before the absurdity of such
a mantel in such a place.  It was covered with scrolls and panels, and
finally, by the merest accident, I pushed one of the panels to the
side.  It moved easily, revealing a small brass knob.

It is not necessary to detail the fluctuations of hope and despair, and
not a little fear of what lay beyond, with which I twisted and turned
the knob.  It moved, but nothing seemed to happen, and then I
discovered the trouble.  I pushed the knob vigorously to one side, and
the whole mantel swung loose from the wall almost a foot, revealing a
cavernous space beyond.

I took a long breath, closed the door from the trunk-room into the
hall--thank Heaven, I did not lock it--and pulling the mantel-door wide
open, I stepped into the chimney-room.  I had time to get a hazy view
of a small portable safe, a common wooden table and a chair--then the
mantel door swung to, and clicked behind me.  I stood quite still for a
moment, in the darkness, unable to comprehend what had happened.  Then
I turned and beat furiously at the door with my fists.  It was closed
and locked again, and my fingers in the darkness slid over a smooth
wooden surface without a sign of a knob.

I was furiously angry--at myself, at the mantel door, at everything.  I
did not fear suffocation; before the thought had come to me I had
already seen a gleam of light from the two small ventilating pipes in
the roof.  They supplied air, but nothing else.  The room itself was
shrouded in blackness.

I sat down in the stiff-backed chair and tried to remember how many
days one could live without food and water.  When that grew monotonous
and rather painful, I got up and, according to the time-honored rule
for people shut in unknown and ink-black prisons, I felt my way
around--it was small enough, goodness knows.  I felt nothing but a
splintery surface of boards, and in endeavoring to get back to the
chair, something struck me full in the face, and fell with the noise of
a thousand explosions to the ground.  When I had gathered up my nerves
again, I found it had been the bulb of a swinging electric light, and
that had it not been for the accident, I might have starved to death in
an illuminated sepulcher.

I must have dozed off.  I am sure I did not faint.  I was never more
composed in my life.  I remember planning, if I were not discovered,
who would have my things.  I knew Liddy would want my heliotrope
poplin, and she's a fright in lavender.  Once or twice I heard mice in
the partitions, and so I sat on the table, with my feet on the chair.
I imagined I could hear the search going on through the house, and once
some one came into the trunk-room; I could distinctly hear footsteps.

"In the chimney!  In the chimney!" I called with all my might, and was
rewarded by a piercing shriek from Liddy and the slam of the trunk-room
door.

I felt easier after that, although the room was oppressively hot and
enervating.  I had no doubt the search for me would now come in the
right direction, and after a little, I dropped into a doze.  How long I
slept I do not know.

It must have been several hours, for I had been tired from a busy day,
and I wakened stiff from my awkward position.  I could not remember
where I was for a few minutes, and my head felt heavy and congested.
Gradually I roused to my surroundings, and to the fact that in spite of
the ventilators, the air was bad and growing worse.  I was breathing
long, gasping respirations, and my face was damp and clammy.  I must
have been there a long time, and the searchers were probably hunting
outside the house, dredging the creek, or beating the woodland.  I knew
that another hour or two would find me unconscious, and with my
inability to cry out would go my only chance of rescue.  It was the
combination of bad air and heat, probably, for some inadequate
ventilation was coming through the pipes.  I tried to retain my
consciousness by walking the length of the room and back, over and
over, but I had not the strength to keep it up, so I sat down on the
table again, my back against the wall.

The house was very still.  Once my straining ears seemed to catch a
footfall beneath me, possibly in my own room.  I groped for the chair
from the table, and pounded with it frantically on the floor.  But
nothing happened: I realized bitterly that if the sound was heard at
all, no doubt it was classed with the other rappings that had so
alarmed us recently.

It was impossible to judge the flight of time.  I measured five minutes
by counting my pulse, allowing seventy-two beats to the minute.  But it
took eternities, and toward the last I found it hard to count; my head
was confused.

And then--I heard sounds from below me, in the house.  There was a
peculiar throbbing, vibrating noise that I felt rather than heard, much
like the pulsing beat of fire engines in the city. For one awful moment
I thought the house was on fire, and every drop of blood in my body
gathered around my heart; then I knew.  It was the engine of the
automobile, and Halsey had come back.  Hope sprang up afresh.  Halsey's
clear head and Gertrude's intuition might do what Liddy's hysteria and
three detectives had failed in.

After a time I thought I had been right.  There was certainly something
going on down below; doors were slamming, people were hurrying through
the halls, and certain high notes of excited voices penetrated to me
shrilly.  I hoped they were coming closer, but after a time the sounds
died away below, and I was left to the silence and heat, to the weight
of the darkness, to the oppression of walls that seemed to close in on
me and stifle me.

The first warning I had was a stealthy fumbling at the lock of the
mantel-door.  With my mouth open to scream, I stopped. Perhaps the
situation had rendered me acute, perhaps it was instinctive.  Whatever
it was, I sat without moving, and some one outside, in absolute
stillness, ran his fingers over the carving of the mantel and--found
the panel.

Now the sounds below redoubled: from the clatter and jarring I knew
that several people were running up the stairs, and as the sounds
approached, I could even hear what they said.

"Watch the end staircases!" Jamieson was shouting.  "Damnation--there's
no light here!"  And then a second later.  "All together now.
One--two--three--"

The door into the trunk-room had been locked from the inside.  At the
second that it gave, opening against the wall with a crash and
evidently tumbling somebody into the room, the stealthy fingers beyond
the mantel-door gave the knob the proper impetus, and--the door swung
open, and closed again.  Only--and Liddy always screams and puts her
fingers in her ears at this point--only now I was not alone in the
chimney room.  There was some one else in the darkness, some one who
breathed hard, and who was so close I could have touched him with my
hand.

I was in a paralysis of terror.  Outside there were excited voices and
incredulous oaths.  The trunks were being jerked around in a frantic
search, the windows were thrown open, only to show a sheer drop of
forty feet.  And the man in the room with me leaned against the
mantel-door and listened.  His pursuers were plainly baffled: I heard
him draw a long breath, and turn to grope his way through the
blackness.  Then--he touched my hand, cold, clammy, death-like.

A hand in an empty room!  He drew in his breath, the sharp intaking of
horror that fills lungs suddenly collapsed.  Beyond jerking his hand
away instantly, he made no movement.  I think absolute terror had him
by the throat.  Then he stepped back, without turning, retreating foot
by foot from The Dread in the corner, and I do not think he breathed.

Then, with the relief of space between us, I screamed, ear-splittingly,
madly, and they heard me outside.

"In the chimney!" I shrieked.  "Behind the mantel!  The mantel!"

With an oath the figure hurled itself across the room at me, and I
screamed again.  In his blind fury he had missed me; I heard him strike
the wall.  That one time I eluded him; I was across the room, and I had
got the chair.  He stood for a second, listening, then--he made another
rush, and I struck out with my weapon.  I think it stunned him, for I
had a second's respite when I could hear him breathing, and some one
shouted outside:

"We--Can't--get--in.  How--does--it--open?"

But the man in the room had changed his tactics.  I knew he was
creeping on me, inch by inch, and I could not tell from where. And
then--he caught me.  He held his hand over my mouth, and I bit him.  I
was helpless, strangling,--and some one was trying to break in the
mantel from outside.  It began to yield somewhere, for a thin wedge of
yellowish light was reflected on the opposite wall.  When he saw that,
my assailant dropped me with a curse; then--the opposite wall swung
open noiselessly, closed again without a sound, and I was alone.  The
intruder was gone.

"In the next room!" I called wildly.  "The next room!"  But the sound
of blows on the mantel drowned my voice.  By the time I had made them
understand, a couple of minutes had elapsed.  The pursuit was taken up
then, by all except Alex, who was determined to liberate me.  When I
stepped out into the trunk-room, a free woman again, I could hear the
chase far below.

I must say, for all Alex's anxiety to set me free, he paid little
enough attention to my plight.  He jumped through the opening into the
secret room, and picked up the portable safe.

"I am going to put this in Mr. Halsey's room, Miss Innes," he said,
"and I shall send one of the detectives to guard it."

I hardly heard him.  I wanted to laugh and cry in the same breath--to
crawl into bed and have a cup of tea, and scold Liddy, and do any of
the thousand natural things that I had never expected to do again.  And
the air!  The touch of the cool night air on my face!

As Alex and I reached the second floor, Mr. Jamieson met us.  He was
grave and quiet, and he nodded comprehendingly when he saw the safe.

"Will you come with me for a moment, Miss Innes?" he asked soberly, and
on my assenting, he led the way to the east wing. There were lights
moving around below, and some of the maids were standing gaping down.
They screamed when they saw me, and drew back to let me pass.  There
was a sort of hush over the scene; Alex, behind me, muttered something
I could not hear, and brushed past me without ceremony.  Then I
realized that a man was lying doubled up at the foot of the staircase,
and that Alex was stooping over him.

As I came slowly down, Winters stepped back, and Alex straightened
himself, looking at me across the body with impenetrable eyes.  In his
hand he held a shaggy gray wig, and before me on the floor lay the man
whose headstone stood in Casanova churchyard--Paul Armstrong.

Winters told the story in a dozen words.  In his headlong flight down
the circular staircase, with Winters just behind, Paul Armstrong had
pitched forward violently, struck his head against the door to the east
veranda, and probably broken his neck.  He had died as Winters reached
him.

As the detective finished, I saw Halsey, pale and shaken, in the
card-room doorway, and for the first time that night I lost my
self-control.  I put my arms around my boy, and for a moment he had to
support me.  A second later, over Halsey's shoulder, I saw something
that turned my emotion into other channels, for, behind him, in the
shadowy card-room, were Gertrude and Alex, the gardener, and--there is
no use mincing matters--he was kissing her!

I was unable to speak.  Twice I opened my mouth: then I turned Halsey
around and pointed.  They were quite unconscious of us; her head was on
his shoulder, his face against her hair.  As it happened, it was Mr.
Jamieson who broke up the tableau.

He stepped over to Alex and touched him on the arm.

"And now," he said quietly, "how long are you and I to play OUR little
comedy, Mr. Bailey?"



CHAPTER XXXIV

THE ODDS AND ENDS

Of Doctor Walker's sensational escape that night to South America, of
the recovery of over a million dollars in cash and securities in the
safe from the chimney room--the papers have kept the public well
informed.  Of my share in discovering the secret chamber they have been
singularly silent.  The inner history has never been told.  Mr.
Jamieson got all kinds of credit, and some of it he deserved, but if
Jack Bailey, as Alex, had not traced Halsey and insisted on the
disinterring of Paul Armstrong's casket, if he had not suspected the
truth from the start, where would the detective have been?

When Halsey learned the truth, he insisted on going the next morning,
weak as he was, to Louise, and by night she was at Sunnyside, under
Gertrude's particular care, while her mother had gone to Barbara
Fitzhugh's.

What Halsey said to Mrs. Armstrong I never knew, but that he was
considerate and chivalrous I feel confident.  It was Halsey's way
always with women.

He and Louise had no conversation together until that night. Gertrude
and Alex--I mean Jack--had gone for a walk, although it was nine
o'clock, and anybody but a pair of young geese would have known that
dew was falling, and that it is next to impossible to get rid of a
summer cold.

At half after nine, growing weary of my own company, I went downstairs
to find the young people.  At the door of the living-room I paused.
Gertrude and Jack had returned and were there, sitting together on a
divan, with only one lamp lighted.  They did not see or hear me, and I
beat a hasty retreat to the library.  But here again I was driven back.
Louise was sitting in a deep chair, looking the happiest I had ever
seen her, with Halsey on the arm of the chair, holding her close.

It was no place for an elderly spinster.  I retired to my upstairs
sitting-room and got out Eliza Klinefelter's lavender slippers.  Ah,
well, the foster motherhood would soon have to be put away in camphor
again.

The next day, by degrees, I got the whole story.

Paul Armstrong had a besetting evil--the love of money.  Common enough,
but he loved money, not for what it would buy, but for its own sake.
An examination of the books showed no irregularities in the past year
since John had been cashier, but before that, in the time of Anderson,
the old cashier, who had died, much strange juggling had been done with
the records.  The railroad in New Mexico had apparently drained the
banker's private fortune, and he determined to retrieve it by one
stroke. This was nothing less than the looting of the bank's
securities, turning them into money, and making his escape.

But the law has long arms.  Paul Armstrong evidently studied the
situation carefully.  Just as the only good Indian is a dead Indian, so
the only safe defaulter is a dead defaulter.  He decided to die, to all
appearances, and when the hue and cry subsided, he would be able to
enjoy his money almost anywhere he wished.

The first necessity was an accomplice.  The connivance of Doctor Walker
was suggested by his love for Louise.  The man was unscrupulous, and
with the girl as a bait, Paul Armstrong soon had him fast.  The plan
was apparently the acme of simplicity: a small town in the west, an
attack of heart disease, a body from a medical college dissecting-room
shipped in a trunk to Doctor Walker by a colleague in San Francisco,
and palmed off for the supposed dead banker.  What was simpler?

The woman, Nina Carrington, was the cog that slipped.  What she only
suspected, what she really knew, we never learned.  She was a
chambermaid in the hotel at C--, and it was evidently her intention to
blackmail Doctor Walker.  His position at that time was uncomfortable:
to pay the woman to keep quiet would be confession.  He denied the
whole thing, and she went to Halsey.

It was this that had taken Halsey to the doctor the night he
disappeared.  He accused the doctor of the deception, and, crossing the
lawn, had said something cruel to Louise.  Then, furious at her
apparent connivance, he had started for the station.  Doctor Walker and
Paul Armstrong--the latter still lame where I had shot him--hurried
across to the embankment, certain only of one thing.  Halsey must not
tell the detective what he suspected until the money had been removed
from the chimney-room. They stepped into the road in front of the car
to stop it, and fate played into their hands.  The car struck the
train, and they had only to dispose of the unconscious figure in the
road.  This they did as I have told.  For three days Halsey lay in the
box car, tied hand and foot, suffering tortures of thirst, delirious at
times, and discovered by a tramp at Johnsville only in time to save his
life.

To go back to Paul Armstrong.  At the last moment his plans had been
frustrated.  Sunnyside, with its hoard in the chimney-room, had been
rented without his knowledge!  Attempts to dislodge me having failed,
he was driven to breaking into his own house.  The ladder in the chute,
the burning of the stable and the entrance through the card-room
window--all were in the course of a desperate attempt to get into the
chimney-room.

Louise and her mother had, from the first, been the great
stumbling-blocks.  The plan had been to send Louise away until it was
too late for her to interfere, but she came back to the hotel at C--
just at the wrong time.  There was a terrible scene.  The girl was told
that something of the kind was necessary, that the bank was about to
close and her stepfather would either avoid arrest and disgrace in this
way, or kill himself.  Fanny Armstrong was a weakling, but Louise was
more difficult to manage.  She had no love for her stepfather, but her
devotion to her mother was entire, self-sacrificing.  Forced into
acquiescence by her mother's appeals, overwhelmed by the situation, the
girl consented and fled.

From somewhere in Colorado she sent an anonymous telegram to Jack
Bailey at the Traders' Bank.  Trapped as she was, she did not want to
see an innocent man arrested.  The telegram, received on Thursday, had
sent the cashier to the bank that night in a frenzy.

Louise arrived at Sunnyside and found the house rented.  Not knowing
what to do, she sent for Arnold at the Greenwood Club, and told him a
little, not all.  She told him that there was something wrong, and that
the bank was about to close.  That his father was responsible.  Of the
conspiracy she said nothing.  To her surprise, Arnold already knew,
through Bailey that night, that things were not right.  Moreover, he
suspected what Louise did not, that the money was hidden at Sunnyside.
He had a scrap of paper that indicated a concealed room somewhere.

His inherited cupidity was aroused.  Eager to get Halsey and Jack
Bailey out of the house, he went up to the east entry, and in the
billiard-room gave the cashier what he had refused earlier in the
evening--the address of Paul Armstrong in California and a telegram
which had been forwarded to the club for Bailey, from Doctor Walker.
It was in response to one Bailey had sent, and it said that Paul
Armstrong was very ill.

Bailey was almost desperate.  He decided to go west and find Paul
Armstrong, and to force him to disgorge.  But the catastrophe at the
bank occurred sooner than he had expected.  On the moment of starting
west, at Andrews Station, where Mr. Jamieson had located the car, he
read that the bank had closed, and, going back, surrendered himself.

John Bailey had known Paul Armstrong intimately.  He did not believe
that the money was gone; in fact, it was hardly possible in the
interval since the securities had been taken.  Where was it?  And from
some chance remark let fall some months earlier by Arnold Armstrong at
a dinner, Bailey felt sure there was a hidden room at Sunnyside.  He
tried to see the architect of the building, but, like the contractor,
if he knew of the such a room he refused any information.  It was
Halsey's idea that John Bailey come to the house as a gardener, and
pursue his investigations as he could.  His smooth upper lip had been
sufficient disguise, with his change of clothes, and a hair-cut by a
country barber.

So it was Alex, Jack Bailey, who had been our ghost.  Not only had he
alarmed--Louise and himself, he admitted--on the circular staircase,
but he had dug the hole in the trunk-room wall, and later sent Eliza
into hysteria.  The note Liddy had found in Gertrude's scrap-basket was
from him, and it was he who had startled me into unconsciousness by the
clothes chute, and, with Gertrude's help, had carried me to Louise's
room.  Gertrude, I learned, had watched all night beside me, in an
extremity of anxiety about me.

That old Thomas had seen his master, and thought he had seen the
Sunnyside ghost, there could be no doubt.  Of that story of Thomas',
about seeing Jack Bailey in the footpath between the club and
Sunnyside, the night Liddy and I heard the noise on the circular
staircase--that, too, was right.  On the night before Arnold Armstrong
was murdered, Jack Bailey had made his first attempt to search for the
secret room. He secured Arnold's keys from his room at the club and got
into the house, armed with a golf-stick for sounding the walls.  He ran
against the hamper at the head of the stairs, caught his cuff-link in
it, and dropped the golf-stick with a crash.  He was glad enough to get
away without an alarm being raised, and he took the "owl" train to town.

The oddest thing to me was that Mr. Jamieson had known for some time
that Alex was Jack Bailey.  But the face of the pseudo-gardener was
very queer indeed, when that night, in the card-room, the detective
turned to him and said:

"How long are you and I going to play our little comedy, MR. BAILEY?"

Well, it is all over now.  Paul Armstrong rests in Casanova churchyard,
and this time there is no mistake.  I went to the funeral, because I
wanted to be sure he was really buried, and I looked at the step of the
shaft where I had sat that night, and wondered if it was all real.
Sunnyside is for sale--no, I shall not buy it.  Little Lucien Armstrong
is living with his step-grandmother, and she is recovering gradually
from troubles that had extended over the entire period of her second
marriage. Anne Watson lies not far from the man she killed, and who as
surely caused her death.  Thomas, the fourth victim of the conspiracy,
is buried on the hill.  With Nina Carrington, five lives were
sacrificed in the course of this grim conspiracy.

There will be two weddings before long, and Liddy has asked for my
heliotrope poplin to wear to the church.  I knew she would. She has
wanted it for three years, and she was quite ugly the time I spilled
coffee on it.  We are very quiet, just the two of us.  Liddy still
clings to her ghost theory, and points to my wet and muddy boots in the
trunk-room as proof.  I am gray, I admit, but I haven't felt as well in
a dozen years.  Sometimes, when I am bored, I ring for Liddy, and we
talk things over.  When Warner married Rosie, Liddy sniffed and said
what I took for faithfulness in Rosie had been nothing but mawkishness.
I have not yet outlived Liddy's contempt because I gave them silver
knives and forks as a wedding gift.

So we sit and talk, and sometimes Liddy threatens to leave, and often I
discharge her, but we stay together somehow.  I am talking of renting a
house next year, and Liddy says to be sure there is no ghost.  To be
perfectly frank, I never really lived until that summer.  Time has
passed since I began this story. My neighbors are packing up for
another summer.  Liddy is having the awnings put up, and the window
boxes filled.  Liddy or no Liddy, I shall advertise to-morrow for a
house in the country, and I don't care if it has a Circular Staircase.







Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






[Illustration:  Ten feet of furred lightning landed squarely on the
cage ]

                            A BIFF BREWSTER
                           MYSTERY ADVENTURE




                                MYSTERY
                                 OF THE
                                 AMBUSH
                                IN INDIA


                        [Illustration: Compass]

                             By ANDY ADAMS


                      GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                                NEW YORK

                   (c) BY GROSSET & DUNLAP, INC. 1962

                          ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




                                Contents


  CHAPTER                                                           PAGE
  I A Mysterious Message                                               1
  II The Boy and the Basket                                            9
  III The Rajah's Ruby                                                16
  IV Biff Vanishes                                                    25
  V Danger at Dawn                                                    33
  VI The Cry of Death                                                 42
  VII The Temple of Kali                                              49
  VIII Chandra Finds a Way                                            57
  IX The Man in the Jeep                                              65
  X The Tiger Hunt                                                    74
  XI A Thief in the Night                                             83
  XII A Double Surprise                                               91
  XIII Biff's Mission                                                 99
  XIV The Valley of Doom                                             106
  XV The Caravan Halts                                               114
  XVI The Bamboo Bridge                                              123
  XVII The Monster of the Mountains                                  133
  XVIII The Frozen Waterfall                                         142
  XIX The Lost City                                                  151
  XX The Master Spy                                                  158
  XXI Secret of the Snows                                            164




                     MYSTERY OF THE AMBUSH IN INDIA




                                   I
                          A Mysterious Message


It was sunset along the Calcutta waterfront. The reflection of the vivid
tropical sky turned the murky water of the Hooghly River into a rippling
rainbow. The river was alive with a variety of craft, including native
sailboats, side-wheel steamers that plied up and down the Hooghly
between Calcutta and the Bay of Bengal, eighty miles south, as well as
sturdy tugs, launches, and lighters that served the ocean-going ships
moored in midstream along the strand.

Biff Brewster was standing at the bow of a big freighter, the 10,000-ton
 Northern Star , which only that afternoon had cast anchor in the Port
of Calcutta. Biff was a blond-haired youth of sixteen, with broad,
square shoulders and blue-gray eyes that were as keen and expressive as
his strong, well-formed features. With Biff were two other boys, his
companions in previous adventures.

One was Kamuka, a Brazilian boy of Biff's own size and age. They had met
at the headwaters of the Amazon, where Biff had accompanied his father,
Thomas Brewster, in an adventurous search for a fabulous gold mine.
Kamuka, who had spent most of his life on jungle rivers, was keenly
interested in the scenes he now was viewing along the Hooghly.

The other boy was slightly younger and smaller of build, but quite as
wiry and athletic as his two companions. He was Likake Mahenili, a
Hawaiian youth known as "Li" to his friends. Li, a skilled diver, had
helped Biff crack the riddle of a vanished sloop when they had teamed in
a thrilling sea hunt off the Hawaiian shores.

Now, all three were newly arrived in India, the land of mystery. But
there was no mystery as to why and how they happened to be together.
That was due to a simple turn of events.

Months ago, Biff's father had gone to India to open long-neglected gold
mines in some of the former princely states that had been absorbed by
the Indian Republic. It had taken much longer than Mr. Brewster
expected--as many of his jobs did--so he had arranged for the family to
come by air to India and join him there.

Meanwhile, Biff had invited Kamuka to come from Brazil and spend his
vacation in the United States. By a quick switch of plans, Biff and
Kamuka had flown to San Francisco just in time to take last-minute
passage on the  Northern Star , which cost less for both than Biff's
trip would have by air.

The freighter had been scheduled to call at Honolulu, so Biff had
written ahead to Li, who had not only met the ship there, but had
decided to come along on his own. They had broken the monotony of the
long voyage with brief stops at ports on the way, but so far, it had
been more of a sightseeing tour than an adventure. They still had one
more night to spend on shipboard as the  Northern Star  had reached
Calcutta a day ahead of schedule.

"Tomorrow," Biff declared, "Dad will be here to meet us. By now, my
mother and the twins should have reached Darjeeling, so he may be
bringing them along to visit the gold fields."

"I hope that Mr. Brewster shows us the Kolar Mines at Mysore," declared
Li enthusiastically. "They have shafts that go down two miles, the
deepest in the world."

"Except for those in South America," put in Kamuka stoutly. "They are
the world's deepest. I learned that at technical school in Brasilia."

"And I suppose they taught you that South America has the biggest
mountains, too," returned Li. "Just wait until we see Mt. Everest. Those
Himalayas will make your Andes look like a lot of ant hills."

"I shall wait until I see them before I judge," said Kamuka
complacently. "But since you speak of ant hills, the ones we have in
Brazil are bigger than anywhere else."

"You can't win, Li," laughed Biff. "Kamuka has an answer for
everything."

"You're telling me?" returned Li, with a grin. "He even answers
questions before I ask them."

This good-natured banter had been going on all across the Pacific. In
the friendly disputes between Kamuka and Li, Biff had been called upon
to act as judge. So now he gestured toward the river, with the comment:

"Let's keep our minds on what we're watching for--the tidal bore coming
up the river. I'd say it's due any moment now, the way those boats are
getting ready for it."

Tugs and side-wheelers were bracing to buck the incoming tide, while the
native boats were hoisting colorful sails and poising in midstream,
ready to take off up the river. Biff had his movie camera with him and
he began taking color pictures of the scene, including activity along
the shore, where tiny craft were hastily shoving off.

"They'll have to clear those piers," Biff commented, "or they may be
smashed like eggshells when the bore hits."

The other boys nodded as they scanned the deepening purple of the river.
But even their keen eyes failed to detect a motion on the darkened steps
of an old pier. There, a slim, furtive figure was crouched close to the
water, looking out toward mid-channel.

Carefully, the huddled watcher fingered a watertight packet attached to
a thin chain around his neck; then, satisfied that it was safe, he slid
his sleek, brown form into the river and began swimming smoothly,
swiftly toward the  Northern Star . He might have been mistaken for a
snout-nosed crocodile from the delta of the Hooghly, or a floating log
swirling in the eddies of the changing tide. But no one noticed him,
least of all the boys high on the big freighter's bow, for their
attention now was fully gripped by what was happening downstream.

Distant whistles blared; their deep-throated signal was relayed by other
ships closer by. Tugs added shrill blasts as a great crest of water came
rushing upstream, churning the muddy Hooghly into a whitish foam. Tiny
boats were tossed like match boxes by the six-foot wave that swept from
shore to shore. Launches rocked, tugs jounced, and the sailing craft
caught the stiff wind that accompanied the tidal bore, letting its
billows carry them along.

While Biff and his companions were watching the wave surge toward them,
the sleek, brown swimmer reached the bow of the  Northern Star . If the
arriving wall of water didn't overwhelm him, it seemed sure to crush him
against the side of the big ship. But as it was almost upon him, his
quick hands came up and grabbed the freighter's anchor chain. An instant
later, he was out of the water and while scrambling upward like a monkey
the white foam churned just beneath him.

Clinging there, he waited while the freighter strained at its moorings,
because of the sudden lift. Then, satisfied that the chain would not
swing him against the ship, he continued his climb, his dripping figure
scarcely visible.

On the deck above, the boys had gone to the starboard side, where Biff
was taking pictures of the boats that were riding upstream. None of them
noticed the head and shoulders that appeared over the port rail. A sleek
figure followed, slid behind a row of crates, and worked along to a
companionway. There it darted swiftly up the steps to the cabin deck
above.

Biff had been following the bore with his camera, until it faded, tiny
sailing ships and all, beneath the towering bulk of the Howrah Bridge,
which spanned the quarter-mile width of the Hooghly River.

"Well, what did you think of it?" Biff asked.

"We have bigger bores on the Amazon," replied Kamuka nonchalantly. "This
was only six feet. Ours are as high as sixteen."

"And the way those sailboats took off was nothing," put in Li. "Not
compared with the way we ride the rollers with our surfboards at
Waikiki."

"It's nice to hear you fellows agree on something," laughed Biff. As he
spoke, a gong sounded from amidships. "And there is something else you
both like, the first call to dinner. Wait while I put my camera in the
cabin; then I'll join you."

Biff had left the door of his cabin unlocked. When he opened the door,
he was conscious of a slight stir within. Biff looked toward the
porthole that served as a window. Momentarily, it blacked out, then
showed plainly against the dimming sunset, as though a figure had
squirmed through. Biff stepped out, closing the door, and called down to
Li and Kamuka:

"Take a look over the port side and see if someone is hanging on outside
my cabin!"

A figure had been hanging on, but no longer. Pushing off from the side
of the ship, it straightened in mid-air and plummeted down the side of
the freighter, punching the water with scarcely a splash. By the time Li
and Kamuka looked over the rail and Biff was gazing from the porthole of
the cabin, the lithe brown swimmer was heading shoreward, unseen on the
now darkened surface of the river.

The cabin itself was empty. Of that, Biff felt sure as he turned on the
light, until a familiar voice spoke almost at his elbow.

"Listen carefully, Biff," the voice announced. "I have something
important to tell you--"

The effect was electric on Biff. "It's Dad's voice!" he exclaimed. By
then, the door of the cabin had opened again, and Li and Kamuka were
staring in, both bewildered as the voice continued:

"I cannot meet you as I planned, so follow these instructions exactly.
Tomorrow morning, at ten o'clock, be at the New India Bazaar in
Calcutta--"

At this, Li exclaimed excitedly, "It's Mr. Brewster's voice!" and Kamuka
added, "But where is he? I don't see him?" Then, Biff was pointing,
showing them the answer. The voice was coming from a tape recorder that
was on a table in the corner, and was connected with a lamp socket in
the cabin wall.

"And there you will receive another message," Mr. Brewster's voice
declared. "Follow it exactly, and you will meet a man we both can trust.
He will have more to tell you, so obey his orders to the letter, as if
they came from me."

The tape ran on silently from that point. Biff stopped the recorder as
Li asked, in a puzzled tone, "Is this a joke, Biff?" Kamuka, his eyes
wide, was silently asking the same question, but Biff shook his head.

"Far from it," said Biff. "I never heard this tape before, but it's
Dad's voice, as you both know. He has a recorder just like mine; in
fact, I brought this one along because Dad told me that if he had a
special message, he would put it on tape for me--just as he has!"

With that, Biff strode to the porthole and looked out over the black
river, toward the thousands of lights that were now gleaming from the
vastness of Calcutta, largest city in India, and the second greatest
metropolis of what had once been the British Empire.

"But who brought the message?" queried Li.

"And why?" added Kamuka.

"Those questions," returned Biff, "will be answered tomorrow, at the New
India Bazaar!"




                                   II
                         The Boy and the Basket


The last call for dinner interrupted any further comments on the
mysterious message. Tonight was a big event, for the chief steward of
the  Northern Star  had gone the limit to please the three youthful
passengers on the freighter. The meal consisted of specialties in
Brazilian, Hawaiian, and American dishes, with little speeches in
between.

But the boys found it difficult to share the spirit of the other
passengers and ship's officers, who were doing their best to entertain
them on this last evening together. Biff was sure that morning would
bring some confirmation of his father's message, while Li and Kamuka
were wondering whether or not he had sufficient reason to be that
confident.

Early the next morning, the three boys were up and on deck when a mail
boat came to the  Northern Star . A uniformed Hindu handed a telegram to
Captain Peterson, the skipper of the freighter, who passed it on to Biff
with the comment:

"This is for you rather than for me."

Li and Kamuka were peering over Biff's shoulders as he read the message
aloud:

  "NOTIFY BIFF BREWSTER HIS FATHER CANNOT MEET HIM IN CALCUTTA. HE AND
  FRIENDS ARE TO PICK UP PLANE RESERVATIONS FOR DARJEELING AND JOIN HIS
  FAMILY THERE."

The message was signed by the New Delhi representative of the Ajax
Mining Company, for which Biff's father worked. Captain Peterson told
the boys to let him know if they had any trouble finding their plane
reservations at the Grand Hotel, where the bus left for the Calcutta
Airport at Dum Dum. Biff and his two companions said good-by and packed
themselves ashore.

They took a taxicab past the Maidan, the huge park where hundreds of
Hindus were asleep on the grassy expanse. Still more were sprawled along
the sidewalk of Chowringhi Road, which brought them to the Grand Hotel.
There, they found that plane reservations had been made for Darjeeling,
but instead of picking them up immediately, Biff inquired the way to the
New India Bazaar and found that it was a short rickshaw ride from the
hotel.

Soon the boys were riding swiftly through the native quarter of
Calcutta, in a two-wheeled, man-hauled carriage that followed narrow
streets flanked by rows of old tenement houses and other crude
structures filled with the city's teeming population.

At the New India Bazaar, they found rows of small shops surrounding a
busy square where shoppers in Hindu attire carefully side-stepped a
sacred cow that was sprawled complacently on the sidewalk. Barkers were
babbling in Hindustani, trying to attract trade and one youth, attired
in shorts and loose white jacket, was drumming up business by beating
the ends of a wooden keg, tom-tom style, drawing a crowd along with him.

The Indian boy looked tall because he was thin, even to his smiling
face. He eyed Biff and the other boys closely as he passed them, giving
the drum a few quick, extra beats as an invitation to come along. Biff
turned to his companions and ran his hand through his shock of blond
hair.

"Dad must have given his friend a good description of me," Biff told the
others, "so I am sure to be spotted soon. The more we circulate, the
easier it will be to find me, so we may as well see where this drummer
boy is leading us."

They wound up at an open corner where some buildings had been demolished
to make way for one of the wide new streets that were being cut through
the city's congested areas. Temporarily, at least, it had been turned
into an outdoor theater, for a man in baggy white clothes and a huge
turban was beckoning the crowd his way as he announced:

"I, Jinnah Jad, greatest  jadoo wallah  in Bengal. I make  jadoo  with
duck. You see."

By "jadoo" Jinnah Jad meant "magic," and the term "wallah" signified
that he performed it. The jadoo wallah filled a small tub with water
from a big jar, then placed a miniature imitation duck in the tiny pond
thus formed. As Jinnah Jad made mystic passes over the toy duck, it
dived into the water, only to come popping up again at his command.

As the boys moved closer with the interested crowd, Jinnah Jad gestured
them into a semicircle and announced:

"I show you magic with mango. First I make tent where it can grow--"

As he spoke, he set three sticks in the ground so they formed a tripod
about four feet high. He took a cloth from a big heap and wrapped it
around the sticks, making a little tepee. He held up a mango seed, about
the size of a large pear, then pushed it in through the opening of the
tent, as though planting it.

Soon Jinnah Jad pulled away the cloth and showed a little sprout instead
of just a seed. He formed the tent again, using a larger cloth. He piped
a tune on a hollow gourd that he used as a flute and pulled away the
cloth. There, spreading out from the tent, was a small mango tree, with
fruit on its branches!

As the crowd buzzed its admiration, Jinnah Jad turned to the slender boy
with the drum and said, "Chandra, you bring me rupees, so I make more
jadoo." The boy promptly picked up a wooden bowl and started through the
crowd, taking up a collection, nudging people with the bowl and
gesturing to their pockets whenever they hesitated at contributing a few
coins.

Biff, meanwhile, was speaking in a low voice to his companions. "Let's
spread out, so you two can watch to see if anyone is watching me," he
suggested. "Then no one will know that we are together." To that, Li and
Kamuka agreed. As they moved away, they each passed Chandra and added
coins to the collection at the Hindu boy's urging. Then Chandra reached
Biff and asked politely, "You have rupees, maybe, sahib?"

Biff pulled two rupee notes from his pocket and dropped them in the
bowl. Chandra bowed and brushed past, taking the bowl to Jinnah Jad, who
picked out the rupee notes and glowered his dissatisfaction at the rest.
Two men were passing by, carrying a heavy basket that dangled by its
handles from a long pole. Jinnah Jad told them to set down their burden
and remove the bundles that it contained. Then:

"This boy is good for nothing," declared Jinnah Jad, indicating Chandra.
"So I make him go for good. You watch."

Before Chandra could dart away, Jinnah Jad grabbed him and thrust him
into the basket, which was roundish and bulging at the sides. Jinnah Jad
threw a cloth over the boy's head and shoulders and suddenly, Chandra's
form collapsed beneath it. Triumphantly, Jinnah Jad jumped into the
basket and trampled the cloth there.

Chandra had vanished from the basket, and to prove it, Jinnah Jad not
only stamped his feet all around, he squatted down in the basket,
filling it with his fat form, while he clucked like a happy hen seated
on a nest. Then, emerging from the basket, Jinnah Jad snatched up a long
sword, shouting, "I show you boy is really gone!" With that, he stabbed
the sword through one side of the basket and out the other side.

While the crowd gasped, Jinnah Jad repeated the thrust again and again,
one direction, then another. The jadoo wallah had worked himself into a
frenzy when the men who owned the basket stopped him and babbled in a
native dialect.

"They know the boy is gone," translated Jinnah Jad, for the benefit of
the crowd. "They do not want me to spoil their basket." He waved to the
basket and told the two bearers, "All right, take it."

Eagerly, the two natives piled their bundles into the basket, thrust the
pole through its handles and hoisted it on their shoulders. By then,
Jinnah Jad was in the midst of another miracle. He was pouring rice from
a bowl into a square teakwood box that had a glass front, while he
stated:

"One time, in India, there was great famine, with people everywhere
needing rice. So a great yogi in the Himalayas fill a box with rice like
this--"

The throng was hushed, for Calcutta itself had suffered from great
famines, even in comparatively recent years.

"So by magic, he sent rice everywhere, to everybody!" Jinnah Jad gave
the box a flip. Instantly, the rice was gone from behind the glass and
he was opening the box wide, showing it to be totally empty. "Yes, to
everybody! To you--to you--to you." Jinnah Jad was jabbing his finger
from person to person. "So look in your pockets and find it! You,
sahib--you, babu--find rice!"

People were bringing fistfuls of rice from their pockets. Biff smiled,
thinking these were friends of the jadoo wallah, until he saw total
astonishment on faces close by. Those included Li's, for a dozen feet
away, the Hawaiian youth was bringing out two handfuls of the tiny
grains from each coat pocket. Still skeptical, Biff thrust his hands
into his own pockets and brought them out--containing rice!

The deeper he dug, the more he found. Biff was almost ready to accept
the jadoo of Jinnah Jad as real indeed, when he brought out something
else, a crinkly wad of paper, with more rice inside it. Puzzled, Biff
pulled it open and found it to be a penciled note that stated:

   Follow men who go with basket. Go alone. Tell no one where you go.
  Important. 

None of the other spectators had found a note like that, for they were
simply staring at the rice, while Jinnah Jad moved through the crowd,
taking up a new collection in person. Biff looked for the basket bearers
and saw them starting slowly away, as if they had waited just long
enough for Biff to find the note.

So Biff started after them, working his way through the crowd so that he
went past Li. Quickly, Biff muttered:

"Don't look now. Just find Kamuka and wait for me here. I'll be
back--soon."




                                  III
                            The Rajah's Ruby


By the time the basket carriers had turned a few corners, Biff was not
so sure that he would rejoin his companions as soon as he expected. The
lazily moving pair suddenly stepped up their pace and the narrow, poorly
paved streets looked so much alike that Biff had no idea where they were
leading him.

The streets were flanked by  chawls  or native houses that were scarcely
more than hovels. From the suspicious glances that Biff received, and
from the way the buildings encroached upon the narrow alleys, he felt as
though a whole sea of humanity was closing in upon him. He realized that
he would need a compass to find his way back. There was no telling by
the sun, which was out of sight even over the low roofs, although the
day was becoming so hot that Biff wished he were back in a rickshaw
instead of footing it through these dismal, dirty streets.

Then they reached a better section, where the buildings were higher,
with occasional shop fronts. There, the basket bearers slackened pace
and turned into a passage beneath an archway that bore the sign:

                            D. CHAND & BROS.
                             Import--Export 
                               Warehouse

Biff followed cautiously and saw the two men cross a little courtyard
and continue through another archway well beyond. There they disappeared
from view but only long enough to set down the basket, because one of
them returned to the inner arch and closed a big metal gate behind him.
He then went to rejoin his companion.

By then, Biff was moving into the courtyard himself. He edged over to
one side and gained a look through the inner arch. Beyond the closed
gate he saw what appeared to be a large storeroom, for there were many
crates, boxes, and other bulky objects stacked there. From his angle,
Biff could see nothing of the two men, so he moved cautiously toward the
inner arch, hoping to get a closer and more direct view.

At that moment, a clang sounded behind him, and Biff turned to see that
another gate had closed in the outer arch. A tall man in baggy white
clothes had stepped in from the street and was now locking the gate
behind him. Biff was trapped in the open space between the archways. He
looked quickly for an outlet, and saw one on the other side of the
courtyard, in the form of an open doorway.

Biff hurried in that direction, only to stop short as a man appeared in
the doorway to meet him with a polite, welcoming bow. The man was
dressed in European clothes, but his broad, bland face, with fixed smile
and bushy eyebrows above his large-rimmed glasses, was definitely
Asiatic. So was his cool, even-toned pronouncement:

"I am Diwan Chand. I have been expecting you. Come in."

Then, as Biff hesitated, glancing back at the white-garbed Hindu, who
was coming from the outer gate, Diwan Chand added a further
introduction:

"This is Nathu, my special watchman. I thought it best to have him lock
the gate, so we cannot be disturbed. He will wait here until we return."

Chand said nothing about the pair who had gone through the inner archway
with the basket. Biff followed the bland merchant through a room
equipped with a long row of vacant desks, like an old-fashioned counting
house.

"Our clerks work here," explained Chand, "but they have all gone out to
lunch, so no one will know of your visit."

Whether that was good or bad, Biff wasn't sure. He felt a nervous
tingling that seemed an instinctive warning of some close danger; yet it
might be that all these precautions were for his benefit.

This seemed doubly so when they reached Chand's quiet private office at
the rear of the long counting room. There, the merchant closed the door,
gestured Biff to a chair, and opened a small safe that was cunningly
concealed in the elaborately carved woodwork of the wall.

"You received your father's message," commented Mr. Chand, "and now I
have something for you to take to him. This."

Biff gasped at the object Mr. Chand placed on the table before him.
There, in a small case lined with white velvet, gleamed the largest and
most magnificent gem that Biff had ever seen. It was a blood-red ruby,
with a touch of purple that gave it a glow like living fire, even in the
subdued light of the office. In his study of mineralogy, Biff had viewed
many fine stones, but never one that even approached this ruby.

"A  padmaraga ," Mr. Chand said. "A true Brahmin ruby, not to be
confused with those of lesser caste. Whoever carries such a gem as this
one can live in perfect safety in the midst of many enemies, totally
without fear."

At first, Biff thought that Mr. Chand was simply repeating some Hindu
legend concerning rubies, but he soon saw that the merchant's steady
smile had become very serious.

"For this I can vouch," Mr. Chand continued. "The Light of the Lama, as
this ruby is known, brought good fortune to the descendants of the rajah
who originally owned it. While I have been its custodian, I, too, have
prospered. There has been no trouble here, despite riots and
disturbances in other parts of Calcutta, in fact, throughout India."

Mr. Chand picked up the squarish jewel case and started to place it in a
chamois bag, as he added:

"And now good fortune goes with you. They say that even the power of
invisibility is granted to those who hold this gem. Perhaps that is why
danger has passed me by."

"But in that case," Biff asked frankly, "why are you giving it to me?
Shouldn't you keep it for yourself?"

"It is my duty to pass it along," replied Mr. Chand solemnly, "and
besides, I have noticed that the Light is losing some of its fire, which
is a bad sign. See for yourself!"

He moved the ruby closer to Biff, who saw now that the gem was in a
simple golden setting; but more important, just as Mr. Chand said, its
sparkle had dwindled. Then, as Biff himself held the jewel, its wine-red
depth kindled with new flame, so suddenly that Biff caught his breath.

"A good sign!" exclaimed Mr. Chand, closing the little case and
thrusting it into the bag. "That proves it is in the hands where it
belongs!" He pressed it into Biff's hands as he spoke. "So guard it
well"--he paused and his fixed smile became whimsical for once--"or I
should say, it will guard you well. We have just seen proof of that."

Evidently, Mr. Chand referred to the ruby's sudden glow, which was quite
puzzling to Biff. But something else puzzled him still more.

"Why must I take this ruby to my father?"

"He will tell you when you see him," replied Mr. Chand. "The less I say,
the better, now that I no longer have the ruby to protect me."

"And where will I find my father now?"

"In New Delhi. Go there, but do not contact his company except to ask
for him by telephone. If he is not there, go to the United States
Embassy, but be careful even then, as spies are watching everywhere.
Trust only your father's voice as you did when you received the taped
message that I sent you."

Biff nodded, recognizing the wisdom of all that. Then, thoughtfully, he
remarked:

"In that message, my father said I would meet a man that he and I could
both trust. I am sure he meant you, Mr. Chand."

If the merchant had beamed at the compliment, Biff might have been
suspicious, for he still felt the odd sensation of some impending
danger. But Mr. Chand was modest.

"You can trust me," he said simply, "but your father meant another man,
Barma Shah. He was the contact who brought us together. I had hoped that
he would be here to meet you and go with you now, but he is probably
being watched."

"By the same spies you mentioned, Mr. Chand?" Biff inquired.

"Yes. Barma Shah told me he would stay away if danger threatened here.
That was a month ago and shortly afterward, new riots broke out in
Calcutta. Some were rather close by, the nearest that they have been.
Naturally, Barma Shah did not come that day. He has stayed away
since--and wisely--so I sent word to you myself, as was arranged for
such a situation."

Above Mr. Chand's quiet voice, Biff thought he heard a rising murmur,
much like the approach of the tidal bore along the Hooghly. Whether or
not it was his imagination, he felt more closed in than ever.

"The day of the riots," Mr. Chand went on, "I looked at the Light of the
Lama and saw it had clouded. I was afraid, not for myself, but for Barma
Shah. I was glad when he did not come here--"

The murmur was louder now, no longer like wave beats, but more a human
babble, with occasional muffled shouts. Mr. Chand heard them, too, for
he raised his hand and exclaimed: "Listen!" Timed to the action came a
sudden pounding at the office door and the excited voice of Nathu, the
watchman:

"Master! There is danger! Another riot has started, outside our very
gate!"

As Chand unlocked the office door and opened it, the babble rose to a
bedlam of howls, shrieks, and the clang of metal as the mob battered at
the big gate. At Chand's mention of the ruby, Biff had thrust his hand
into his pocket to see if he still had the chamois bag that he had
placed there. It was safe, and as Biff clenched it tensely, his palm
seemed to burn as though the gem were actually glowing through its
wrappings.

There was a huge crash as the metal gate collapsed and now, through the
barred windows of the counting room, Biff could see the milling figures
of the native rioters as they flooded the courtyard, swinging clubs,
slashing with knives, and hurling rocks at one another. Some of those
missiles smashed the glass in the barred windows, adding to the crowd's
glee, for they were eager to destroy property along with lives.

Mr. Chand showed surprising speed as he whisked Biff back into the
little office and through a door in the opposite wall, at the same time
saying excitedly, "Go through the  godown ! It is your only way!"

Biff thought "godown" meant some steps, but instead, Mr. Chand was
referring to the storeroom. As Biff started off among the crates, there
was another clang from the courtyard, where the rioters were smashing at
the inner gate leading into the storage room itself.

"Not that way!" called Mr. Chand. "At the back, you will find another
 darwaza --another gate! Turn left on the back street until you reach
the  chowk --the market place! You will be safe there."

Mr. Chand turned back into his office to help Nathu try to stem the
attack, and Biff shoved his way among the crates, clambering over boxes,
until he reached the rear exit that Mr. Chand had mentioned, but too
late. Already, the back street teemed with rioters. Leering faces turned
Biff's way, and eager fingers pointed at him through the bars of the
rear gate.

Then hands were bashing the gate itself as others threw stones through
the grillwork. Biff dodged back among the crates, realizing hopelessly
that he was caught between two fires. A great crash told that the gate
from the courtyard had given way; and an echoing clang from the other
direction signified that the rear gate had met the same fate.

What Biff's own fate would be, the next few moments would tell. Grimly,
he found himself gripping the chamois bag in his pocket, wondering if
the Light of the Lama could save him now. As if in answer, something
plucked his shoulder and Biff turned quickly, bringing both fists up to
fight off the first of a hundred enemies.

Instead, he found himself looking into the face of Chandra, the Indian
boy who had vanished from the basket back at the New India Bazaar. Above
the babble of the rioters came Chandra's words:

"Quick! Come with me--this way!"




                                   IV
                             Biff Vanishes


Escape from the frenzied mob seemed impossible, but at least Chandra was
making a try as he pushed Biff toward a deep corner of the big
storeroom, the only direction in which the invaders had not yet spread.
But there was no door, no outlet, nothing except a solid stone wall
beyond the last lot of crates.

Those offered no good hiding place, because the rioters already were
overturning or yanking open chests and boxes which blocked them, while
they kept up an excited shout, " Farangi! Farangi! "

That was one word that Biff knew. It meant "European"--which in his case
could be translated as "American"--and it signified that they were
definitely after Biff, though probably they would attack any Farangi
that they encountered. And now, Biff and Chandra were practically in the
corner, with no way to turn, except one, which looked like the worst
trap of all.

Just ahead stood a tall, rather bulky cabinet shaped in the form of a
pagoda, with half a dozen sides and a pair of front doors that were
partly open. Quickly, Chandra thrust Biff inside and pushed him to the
back, saying, "In there--keep quiet--do not move!" Then he pressed an
inner door shut, and Biff found himself alone in pitch darkness, clamped
in a space so tight that Chandra's admonition not to move was quite
unnecessary.

Chandra was gone by then, dodging off among the crates, perhaps to save
his own sleek hide at the expense of Biff's. For Biff, realizing now
that he was really boxed, was beginning to regret that he had trusted
the Indian youth so completely. Chandra, a native himself, probably had
friends among the mob. Maybe he had even told them that he would lure
Biff here.

Until now, Biff had had a chance either for fight or flight. Those were
both gone, and if he didn't suffocate in this bandbox, he would probably
be yanked out and torn apart before he could even make a move. He was so
tightly jammed, he couldn't even reach into his pocket and find the
ruby, which he felt was the real cause of his misfortune, despite the
soft talk Diwan Chand had given him.

Even now, Biff heard voices: "Farangi--we find him--look there...." And
he could hear crates being turned over close by. Next, the shouters were
clambering in and out of the cabinet itself, for Biff could feel it
shake and the hoarse, snarly voices were almost at his elbow. They were
even pulling the pagoda out from the wall, for its platform was set on
wheels; and they were literally spinning it about, with Biff still
inside it, yet for some reason, they passed by him in the blackness.

More shouts, louder crashes were suddenly punctuated by pistol shots,
leading to a last round of tumult that soon died. Biff heard receding
footsteps; then came a deadly silence, which was even worse. Biff felt
totally helpless and abandoned, unable to move, afraid even to call for
help. He was drenched in perspiration, and why he hadn't suffocated or
been found he couldn't understand, until a sharp click interrupted his
numbed thoughts.

Biff lurched forward, found the front doors and stepped shakily from the
pagoda cabinet to find one person in the dim light of the warehouse
waiting, grinning, to receive him. That was Chandra.

Briefly, the Indian boy explained things.

"They took a good look for you, all right," he said. "Some of them did,
anyway, while the rest kept fighting each other. They looked a lot, but
they didn't find you--or me."

"But where did you go, Chandra?"

"Back in basket that brought me here," replied Chandra, widening his
grin. He reached past a crate, pulled out the basket, squatted in it and
suddenly squirmed from sight, as if the basket were bottomless. Biff
looked in and was amazed to see nothing except a heap of old cloth.

Then, the heap stirred, and Chandra twisted into view from the basket's
bulging sides where he had artfully coiled his thin, agile body.

"So that's how you vanished!" exclaimed Biff. "Why, you were still in
the basket when the two men took it away!"

"How else could I get here so quick?" retorted Chandra. "They are
friends of Jinnah Jad, who show up with basket at the right time. This
godown is where Jinnah Jad keeps all his tricks, like the new pagoda he
built to make people vanish. So I put you there."

"And I was thinking--"

Biff cut himself short, but Chandra picked him up.

"You think maybe the big ruby made you invisible," declared Chandra, "as
it is supposed to do. But no, it was the pagoda trick. It hid you, the
basket hid me."

Biff was cooler now, and he felt an actual shudder as he looked around
at the wreckage and saw some silent human figures lying near the gate to
the courtyard. Otherwise, the warehouse was deserted, except for Biff
and Chandra.

"But where did they all go, Chandra?" Biff asked.

"You heard shooting?" returned Chandra. "That was the police. They came
to help Diwan Chand. Lucky they didn't use tear gas, which they do a
lot. We would have gotten it, too."

Chandra was looking around at the broken boxes. He saw one that
interested him and beckoned Biff that way.

"We must get out before police come back and ask us to be witnesses,"
declared Chandra. "But the people who are after the ruby will be
watching for you. So you must wear other clothes--like these."

Chandra was picking some native garments from those that had been dumped
from an overturned chest. Studying Biff, Chandra noted the deep tan that
Biff had acquired during his long voyage on the  Northern Star .

"Your face is dark enough," decided Chandra, "but your light hair will
have to be hidden. So we will make you into a Sikh. A Sikh always wears
a turban. That will fool everyone."

Soon, Biff was attired in a costume that made him feel top-heavy. It
consisted of shorts, shirt, and jacket, and a huge turban, which
completely covered Biff's ears as well as his head, after Chandra helped
him wrap it. They bundled up Biff's clothes along with some other
garments and went out by the rear gate.

It was fortunate that both were in native garb, because Biff could sense
that eyes were watching them as they followed the street to the market
place. Chandra knew it too, for he said, "Don't look around. They will
suspect us if you do."

There were natives in the market place, gathered in little clusters,
discussing the recent riot. They glanced at the boys as they passed, but
that was all. Chandra gave a pleased chuckle, then added cautiously, "It
looks good now, but still we play it safe. We go the long way, past the
 thana ."

By  thana , Chandra meant police headquarters, a place that suspicious
characters would avoid. After passing it, the boys were satisfied that
they were not being followed, so they doubled back to the New India
Bazaar, where they saw Li and Kamuka studying the passersby from the
doorway of a sporting goods shop.

It was Biff's move now. He eased up to Li, tapped him on the shoulder,
and said, "Salaam, Sahib." Li turned and blinked puzzled at the face
beneath the turban until Biff could no longer restrain a grin.

"Biff!" exclaimed Li. "But where--and why--"

"We can't talk here," interposed Biff. "Meet me around the corner and
bring Kamuka."

Chandra was with Biff when the other boys arrived. After introducing the
Indian youth, Biff said:

"I must go to New Delhi. If Chandra can go with me, it is up to him to
decide who can accompany us."

"I can go," Chandra assured him, "and Kamuka, too. But not Li." He
turned to the Hawaiian youth. "Too many people saw you with Biff while
you were watching Jinnah Jad make jadoo. You might be recognized, one
because of the other."

Before Li could even show the disappointment that he felt, Biff softened
the situation.

"Somebody will have to go up to Darjeeling," he reminded his friend, "to
tell the family where I've gone. Canceling those extra plane
reservations and handling our luggage is a tough job, too. It looks like
you're elected, Li."

Li not only was elected; he did his job well. He went to the Grand Hotel
and returned by taxi, rejoining the group at a restaurant that Chandra
had specified. Li had canceled the air reservations without difficulty;
he had brought hiking packs for Biff and Kamuka, and he had arranged for
shipment of the excess baggage.

After a substantial meal, Li returned to the hotel by cab, to catch the
Darjeeling plane. The other boys boarded a big bus for Howrah, across
the river. Biff and Kamuka looked down from the tremendous cantilever
span and viewed the muddy Hooghly, hoping to spot the  Northern Star 
moored in the dim distance. They were talking about it--in English,
unfortunately--when Chandra hissed for silence.

They realized then that they were an odd group as it was--too odd to be
using English as a common language. Biff, whose features didn't properly
match his Sikh's costume; Kamuka, who might have come from an upcountry
tribe, but was wearing European clothes; Chandra, who with his  dhoti 
and jacket, looked like a jadoo wallah's boy, which was exactly what he
was, and therefore the most outlandish of the trio.

In short, they were attracting too much attention. Biff and Kamuka
promptly subsided. Biff, particularly, felt that he should show some
dignity, so he did, by looking squarely at the other passengers, until
he caught the eye of a distinguished-looking man across the aisle.

The man had a large beard and a huge turban, which marked him as a Sikh,
and a genuine one. He was studying Biff with sharp eyes that continued
their piercing probe until the bus reached Howrah Station. Then, as they
were stepping from the bus, the bearded Sikh suddenly spoke to Biff in
what was their own common language, except that Biff couldn't understand
a word of it.

All that saved Biff was a surge of the crowd, with people pushing one
way, then another, cutting him off from the bearded Sikh. Next, Biff was
on the outskirts of the milling throng, and Chandra was yanking him
away, along with Kamuka.

"Thanks, Chandra!" Biff gasped. "If you hadn't dragged me out of that
jam, the Sikh would have known I was a fake--"

"That wasn't why!" returned Chandra. "That wouldn't have bothered us.
Maybe you're a fake, but he's a bigger one. I saw his beard close enough
to know."

Biff looked back and saw that Chandra was right. Caught in the crowd,
the man with the big turban wasn't trying to follow the three boys; in
fact, he couldn't even see them. The reason was that his false beard had
been pulled up over his eyes, and he was madly trying to straighten it.

Hand in his pocket, Biff was gripping the packet that he had transferred
from his own clothes, wondering if the Light of the Lama again had saved
him from an enemy!




                                   V
                             Danger at Dawn


Right then, Biff's one hope was that he and his two companions could
lose themselves in another and bigger crowd and thus dodge the disguised
stranger who was so intent upon following them.

They couldn't have chosen a better place than the Howrah Station. It
seemed five times bigger than any other railway station Biff had ever
seen, and it contained ten times as many people. The afternoon had
reached its peak of stifling heat, so they had come in here and sprawled
over the acres of cool marble floors in preference to the Calcutta
sidewalks.

The boys had to step around prostrate bodies or clamber over them, as
did hundreds of other travelers who were thronging the great depot.
Practically all of those travelers were natives, and many of them were
carrying huge bundles that contained most of their worldly possessions.

Chandra explained that many of Calcutta's three million citizens were
constantly on the move, due to lack of food or jobs; but that as fast as
they left town, others poured in to replace them. He added that the
population was still shifting between India and Pakistan, which
accounted for more travel, particularly since the East Pakistan border
was so near Calcutta. He also mentioned that many were pilgrims bound
for Benares and other places holy to Hindu cults.

While the boys picked their way through the immense station, Chandra
pointed out examples of each group. He also called attention to
occasional Europeans and well-dressed Indians, including Hindus of high
caste.

"Those few," declared Chandra, "go first- or second-class. Always, some
talk English and ask too much about everybody's business. I know,
because I have gone second-class with Jinnah Jad. So we will go
third-class and talk just to each other."

That satisfied Biff and Kamuka. It wasn't a matter of saving money, for
they had pooled their cash and had more than enough to travel in luxury,
with Chandra included. But getting to New Delhi unnoticed was essential,
and the train trip, which required more than twenty-four hours, was the
sort that promised complications, so the more they avoided, the better.

Chandra had a bright idea on that score, too. Biff gave him enough money
to buy three third-class tickets, but when Chandra rejoined the other
boys, he returned half the cash.

"I only buy tickets halfway," he stated, "so nobody will know we are
going to New Delhi. They will think maybe we are going to Benares or
Allahabad, but instead we will go on to a little village where my uncle
lives and start again from there."

"You're the boss of this expedition, Chandra," Biff assured him.
"Anything that will cover our trail is a good idea."

Breaking the trip also seemed a good idea when Biff saw the
accommodations that the third-class carriages offered. Biff had been
afraid that he might be noticed on the station platform, the way he had
been on the bus, but that worry soon was over. The platform was thicker
with milling humanity than the station itself. People would have been
pushed onto the track, if the train hadn't been there to receive them.

Many were crowding into first- and second-class compartments, only to be
pushed out and ordered back to where they belonged, in third class. Amid
the commotion, Chandra found one third-class compartment that looked
full, but wasn't, because the occupants had simply spread their luggage
in a haphazard way. Chandra began piling them together like so many
bundles of wash, until he had made room for all three boys, including
their own luggage.

The seats in the compartment were little better than benches, but Biff
gladly drew himself into the deepest and most uncomfortable corner,
rather than be observed too closely when members of the train crew
closed the doors, for some of them were genuine Sikhs who might have
seen through his thin disguise.

The platforms were still crowded when the train pulled out--as many
people had come to the station simply to see the others off. Then the
train was rolling into the open country, what little Biff could see of
it. The rattle of wheels mixed with swirls of dust and blended with the
smell of garlic and spices, for everyone was bringing out native food,
bowls of rice, bananas, and other fruit. Biff's appetite was suddenly
roused.

"Think of all that rice Jinnah Jad wasted," Biff said to Kamuka, "when
he did that trick! I could eat some of it now."

"He didn't waste it," reminded Kamuka. "He put it in our pockets,
remember? We should have kept it."

"Say, that was a neat trick." Biff turned to Chandra. "How did Jinnah
Jad work that part of it? Or don't you know?"

Chandra grinned broadly.

"That is one trick I do know," he declared. "Remember when I went
through the crowd, tapping people's pockets, asking for rupees, like
this?" He tapped Biff's pocket, then Kamuka's, and they both nodded.
"While I do that," Chandra went on, "I use my other hand to put rice in
other pockets. So later, the people find it there."

"So that was it!" Almost instinctively, Biff thrust his hand in his
other pocket, then brought it out in amazement, with a pair of candy
bars. Kamuka, reaching into his own pocket, found himself staring at a
handful of loose peanuts.

"You must have bought these when you went for the tickets," said Biff to
Chandra, "and then you slipped them into our pockets while you were
telling us how you did it! Candy for me--peanuts for Kamuka--"

"And now you have peanuts, too," put in Chandra, "in the pocket where
you keep the big ruby."

Again Chandra was right, and Biff's amazement at the Indian boy's skill
was complete. They ate their chocolate bars and peanuts along with some
fruit that Chandra had also brought them. Then, when the other
passengers were no longer noticing them, Chandra remarked:

"Remember how the big man with the fake beard got tangled in the crowd,
when we were leaving the bus?"

Biff and Kamuka nodded.

"I do that too," declared Chandra proudly. "I push one person like
this"--he nudged Biff forward--"and another like that"--he gave Kamuka a
backward push--"and pretty soon all are in each other's way."

Biff smiled at that, too; then he turned solemn.

"We've been watched," he declared, "and that's for sure. So let's be
still more careful from now on."

At various stops, the train disgorged many passengers who filled up
water jars that they had brought along and returned to the train before
it started. Biff and Kamuka let Chandra handle that job for their party,
rather than show themselves on station platforms.

Occasionally, though, Kamuka waved from the compartment window to fruit
sellers who also supplied milk and soft drinks. At such stops, first-
and second-class passengers went ahead to the dining car or had
attendants bring choice dishes to their compartments; but third-class
travelers didn't rate such service.

It was turning dark when the train reached the great coal fields in
western Bengal. That part of the trip interested Biff most, because of
the mining activity. But there was little to be seen, and soon, despite
the rattle and jouncing of the train and the discomfort of the stuffy
corner, Biff began dozing off.

Once, Chandra nudged him and whispered, "Watch your turban! Keep it on
straight!" and Biff woke sufficiently to realize that he had one ear out
of the cumbersome headgear. He worked it into place, saw Chandra nod
approval, and then went back to sleep.

Again, Chandra woke both Biff and Kamuka, who was sleeping, too, telling
them, "Watch out, now! New passengers coming on board. Don't let them
look at you too close."

So Biff and Kamuka kept their heads together and engaged in low
conversation until the new passengers gave up looking at them and fell
asleep themselves. That gave Biff and Kamuka the right to do the same.
This time, Biff's sleep was sound, undisturbed by the joltings of the
train or the blare of the locomotive whistle as it rushed on through the
thick night.

It was a dream that wakened Biff. He imagined that he was clutching the
big ruby, while hands were trying to snatch it from him. He was
confronted by bearded Sikhs and as he clawed wildly at their faces,
their beards came away, until he saw only one smooth face and opened his
eyes to find that the dream, in a sense, was real.

Biff was clutching the bag that contained the ruby, but his hand was
deep in his jacket pocket. The hands that were clutching him were
Chandra's, shaking him awake; and the smooth face, too, was Chandra's.
Quickly, the Indian boy put his finger to his lips for silence.

The train was standing still. All was silent in the compartment except
for the snores of other passengers. The lights looked dimmer than
before, because it was no longer pitch dark outside. Faint streaks of
dawn were reddening the sky beyond low-lying hills. The compartment at
last seemed slightly cool.

Biff risked a whisper. "Where are we?"

"At an engine-changing station," Chandra whispered back. "Our own is
farther on, but we cannot wait until then."

He gestured toward Kamuka, who was still asleep. Between them, Biff and
Chandra shook Kamuka and roused him instantly. Like a team, the three
boys gathered their packs and stepped carefully past the knees and over
the legs of sleeping passengers. Moments later, they were on a
weather-beaten platform alongside the long, silent train. A few dozen
human figures were stretched on the station platform, with white sheets
of cloth drawn completely over their motionless forms, like shrouds.

"Railroad workers, mostly," whispered Chandra, "waiting for the next
shift. No one else gets on or off here, at least, not often."

"But why are they covered over?" asked Biff, impressed by the weird
appearance of the figures.

"Because the night was cool for them," replied Chandra, "but not too
cool for the insects. Soon, now, the covering over their heads will keep
the sun from waking them."

The boys stole across the platform past a square-shaped station where
more such figures lay asleep. Kamuka, looking back at the train, put the
next query:

"But why did we get off here?"

"Too many passengers changed places in the night," replied Chandra. "I
saw new faces; then later, I recognized some of the old again. If we had
gotten off at a crowded station, we could easily have been followed.
Here, no one else can leave the train without our seeing them."

Chandra was right. The boys had reached a road that led at an angle from
the tracks. Looking back, they could see the full length of the brightly
colored train, as they continued on their way. In the gathering
daylight, their keen eyes would surely note any motion on the steps of
any of the cars. Ahead, the road led through a grove of trees. Once
there, the boys themselves would be out of sight.

There was just one spot the boys' roving eyes did not cover; that was
the portion of the platform obscured by the squatty station. There,
three white-shrouded shapes were rising like ghosts in the gray dawn.
They dropped away their sleeping sacks, revealing limber figures clad in
dark clothes that blended with the background of the station wall, as
well as the trees beyond.

One man gave an order in a native dialect and like human bloodhounds,
the stealthy trio stalked off along the very road that the three boys
had taken!




                                   VI
                            The Cry of Death


When the dawn had broadened into full daylight, the change was not too
noticeable, for by now the boys were trudging along a narrow, winding
road that was flanked by vivid tropical foliage and thick, overhanging
tree boughs that cut off much of the sunlight.

To Kamuka, this was intriguing indeed, for it carried him back to his
own jungle life in Brazil, especially when he caught the chatter of the
monkeys from the higher branches. But to Chandra, who was familiar with
it all, such sounds were an annoyance as he tried to explain his plans
to Biff.

"This road will take us to the Grand Trunk Road," stated Chandra, "which
we will follow until nightfall to reach the village of Supari, where my
uncle is  patwari --"

"Patwari?" interposed Biff. "What is that?"

"The same as  karnam  or  kulkarni  or  talati --I have heard it called
by all those names--but it means in English, the man who keeps the
village accounts."

"That would be the town clerk in America." Biff nodded. "So your uncle
is an important man. Go on."

"On the Grand Trunk Road," continued Chandra, "we will look like
everybody else, because all India is there. You will see  hathi ,
 oont ,  ekka --"

"Wait now, Chandra," put in Biff. "Hathis are elephants, that I know.
And oonts are camels. But I never heard of ekkas. What are they?"

"Pony carts," returned Chandra seriously, "and you will also see
bicycles and jeeps."

"It sounds good," decided Biff. "But what if we were being watched on
the train. Do you think they will catch up with us?"

"They cannot catch up," returned Chandra, "because they have gone ahead.
If they talked to ticket agent or to the man who took our tickets, they
know where we should get off and will look for us there."

"When does the train reach our station?" Kamuka asked.

"Not for about an hour," calculated Chandra, "counting change of
engines. Before they come back to look for us, we will be on the Grand
Trunk Road."

Despite his assurance, Chandra was moving rather cautiously, but for
another reason. He was looking from side to side, for they were in the
jungle now and there was no telling what night creatures might still be
on the prowl. Chandra knew this from occasional experience in such a
setting, as any Indian boy would who had lived in a native village like
Supari. But Kamuka, the boy from Brazil, recognized it instinctively,
for he was jungle born and bred, though in the opposite hemisphere.

"Remember, Biff?" queried Kamuka. "The time the big jaguar jumped at
you?"

"I remember," replied Biff, "because it was you who stopped it, Kamuka."

"I just helped," said Kamuka. "But this jungle reminds me of jaguars. Do
they have them here?"

"They have cheetahs, leopards, and tigers. Those should be enough--and
more."

"And big  sucuria , too?"

"Yes, they have those." Biff turned to Chandra. "He means a boa
constrictor. We ran into a big one up the Amazon, a snake the size of
your python."

"What about  Macu ?" demanded Kamuka.

"Head hunters," translated Biff to Chandra. "He wants to know if you
have them, too."

"We have something much worse," declared Chandra solemnly. "We have
thugs, or stranglers, who ride on trains with us. They are after your
ruby, Biff, if you still have it."

Anxiously, Biff brought the bag from his pocket, opened it and held the
Light of the Lama in his palm, where it caught the glint of the sunlight
and reflected it with a vivid crimson sparkle that seemed to dye Biff's
entire hand. The great ruby was larger than the biggest walnut, and as
Biff turned it in the light, its flattened surfaces, or facets, rivaled
one another with their fiery glow.

Chandra, who had been around the gem markets of Calcutta and other
Indian cities, and Kamuka, who had seen the finest of South American
stones during his studies in Brazil--both were swept with awe.

"Never have I seen such fire!" exclaimed Chandra. "The red ruby, like
the blue sapphire, is often beautiful in color, yet very dull."

"This one loses its sparkle sometimes," Biff declared. "And according to
Mr. Chand, it's a bad sign when it does."

"It gives us a good sign now," observed Kamuka. "In South America, we
have the finest of all gems, the green emerald from Colombia. They say
it glows brighter than any red ruby, but now I am not so sure."

Biff smiled, as he recalled Kamuka's debates with Li while they were on
the freighter voyage. For Kamuka to admit that a product of South
America could be matched by those of any other continent, was a
concession indeed.

"That ruby," calculated Chandra, "must be worth ten  lakhs  at least,
ten times a hundred thousand rupees. But that is not why your father
wants it. He needs it for some special purpose; that was why he went to
New Delhi. That much I have heard Mr. Chand tell Jinnah Jad."

"So it was through Jinnah Jad," inquired Biff, "that my father's message
reached me?"

"It was more through me," returned Chandra proudly. "I swam out to the
ship, carrying the tape in this." He produced a watertight bag on a neck
chain. "I looked for the cabin with the tape recorder. I put on the
tape, the way Mr. Chand showed me. Then I heard you coming, so I went
out through porthole quick, and dropped straight down."

"A neat trick," complimented Biff. "I'd like to see you do it some time.
Tell me, Chandra, did you ever meet my father?"

"Yes, I see Sahib Brewster twice, when I was there at Chand and
Brothers, with Jinnah Jad."

"And did you meet his friend, Barma Shah?"

"No, never. He came only to see Mr. Chand in secret. He is what you call
undercover. He stayed away on purpose, when others began to find out
that the ruby was there. Like thugs I speak about."

They were trudging along the road again, and now Biff recalled that it
was Chandra's mention of thugs, or stranglers, that had caused him to
stop and make sure that he still had the priceless ruby safely tucked
away.

"These thugs," questioned Biff, "do they want the ruby because of its
value?"

"They want it because of the goddess Kali," replied Chandra. "That is
why they started riot outside of Chand and Brothers. They would have
strangled Mr. Chand, but they found the ruby gone--"

"So they were looking for me because I had it, and they would have
killed me for it!" Biff explained.

"That is right. But thugs will strangle almost anybody if they find
suitable time and place, because they believe in Kali."

Biff was putting the ruby back into its bag. Chandra paused to hand him
the chain with the waterproof bag, suggesting that he put the packet in
that, which Biff decided was a good idea. As they started on again, Biff
urged:

"Tell us more about this Kali business, Chandra."

"People say Kali was a great goddess who killed a huge monster that
wanted to destroy the world," Chandra related. "But each drop of monster
blood sprang up into a new monster. So Kali taught men to strangle
monsters with a special cloth called  rumal , about this long"--Chandra
spread his hands approximately a yard apart--"and after monsters were
all gone, men began to strangle men in the same way, never shedding any
blood. And so they do today."

"But all that was stopped a hundred years ago--"

"You mean the time when British Raj said there should be no more
 thugee ? Look there"--Chandra stopped abruptly and pointed to an
anthill at the side of the road--"and you see white ants. They are
dangerous, like thugs, so I stamp them out." Roughly, Chandra trampled
the anthill and the insects teeming around it. "But are they all stamped
out? No, some have gone under--how do you say it?"

"Underground," returned Biff.

"That is it," nodded Chandra. "That is the way the thugs went.
Underground. Now they have come up again."

"But why do they want the ruby for Kali?"

"Because they think that rubies are drops of demon blood that will
become new demons unless Kali stops them. Your ruby would make biggest
demon of all, so they want it most. So Jinnah Jad tells me."

"How many thugs do you think were on the train with us, Chandra?" Biff
asked.

"There always must be three," declared Chandra. "Two to use the  rumal 
while the third holds the person they strangle. Always, they pick some
quiet place. Often they work in many secret bands, so they have a
special call, which Jinnah Jad has heard and warned me against. It goes
like this--"

Stopping short, Chandra tilted his head back and gave a long, weird
howl, " Hyyyyaaaaahhhh! " that sent shivers up Biff's spine, despite the
increasing warmth of the morning. Biff pulled off his big turban and
mopped his forehead.

Kamuka, too, was impressed. Never in the jungle of his own native Amazon
had the Brazilian boy heard a cry as strange as that. It was a curious
cross between a human shriek for help and an animal's anguished wail. In
jungle or village, it would strike a familiar, yet fearful note.

But as Biff and Kamuka stared in silence, Chandra's own face turned
suddenly tense. From beyond the bend in the narrow road behind them came
a distant, echoing answer:

" Hyyyyaaaaahhhh! "

It was Biff who broke the grim hush.

"Try it again, Chandra. Let's see how close they are."

Chandra repeated the call in a louder wail that must have carried
farther, for now the answer came, not from behind them, but from the
jungle reaches up ahead. To the startled boys, their plight was all too
grimly plain.

On a forgotten road, walled on both sides by solid jungle, they were
trapped between two murderous bands of approaching thugs!




                                  VII
                           The Temple of Kali


As the boys stood rooted, the strange cries came again; first from one
direction, then the other. But now there was a change in their weird
tones. They trailed longer, as though the thugs were telling each other
something, perhaps that they had helpless victims caught between.

Both Kamuka and Chandra sensed it. Kamuka was for taking to the jungle,
a setting that he knew so well, even though it meant facing creatures
different from those in Brazil. Chandra was willing to go along with
that, but Biff overruled them with a single vote.

"They'd start beating the brush for us," he argued, "and that would only
drive us deeper. It's not going into the jungle that I mind; it's our
chance of ever coming out."

He was beckoning the other boys along the road as he added: "We must
keep ahead of that bunch behind us, because they are really hot on our
trail. Those up front are farther away, even though they are coming
toward us. We may still have time to find a clearing where we can hide,
or better still, some jungle path."

Tensely, the boys quickened their pace. The road here was winding more
sharply, for it was veering in among the low-lying hills. As they passed
a turn in the road, Biff pointed ahead to a gap in the thick jungle,
exclaiming, "That may be it!"

Again, long trailing cries came from both directions as though taunting
Biff's hopes. The call from in back was still as far behind, but the one
ahead was much closer. Gritting his teeth, Biff muttered for his own
benefit, "This will have to be a path--or else!"

It was a path, but a rocky one, leading up a steep slope that flanked
the road. But the boys took to it eagerly, climbing rapidly despite
their packs, so as to reach the first spot where the path itself made a
sharp turn amid the thick foliage.

Once there, they were out of sight from the road below, so they paused
for a breather while they dipped water from a little stream that tumbled
down among the rocks beside the zigzag path.

Biff asked Chandra, "Any idea where this path may take us?"

"Maybe nowhere," responded Chandra glumly. "It may just be an old stream
gone dry."

"I don't think so." Kamuka studied the course of the stream with a
practiced eye. "Look at the smooth rocks here in the stream, yet all
those on the path are rough. If water came up there a lot, they would be
smooth, too."

Chandra still was doubtful until Kamuka pointed far up the path.

"See where the path takes a short cut over the little hump of ground?"
he said. "The stream would go around that, even in the wet season. This
is a path, all right."

"And we'd better be using it," Biff put in, "before those thugs get the
same idea."

Low calls of " Hyyaahh " from both directions down on the road below
indicated that the pursuing groups were close together, probably closing
what they thought were the jaws of a trap. Now that they had regained
their wind, the boys lost no time in resuming their climb, this time at
a steady, even speed that they were sure would keep them well ahead.

Kamuka was correct about the path. It was a real one, for soon it veered
away from the stream entirely and brought the boys to a jutting
promontory that gave them a good view over the green wave of the jungle
slope below. There they rested again, while Biff traced the course of
the road that they had left.

"If we could only cut across and strike the road a few miles up the
line," he said, "we would really shake off those thugs. But no such
luck, I guess. We'd never hack our way through all that growth. Let's
stick to the path."

Sticking to the path meant further climbing, but it proved short, as the
top of the hill was only a little way above. As they reached the final
hump and emerged from the thick foliage, the boys stopped in surprise.
Perched on the summit was a ruined temple, its white marble steps
showing through the tangled underbrush, which was climbing up the
battered pillars and weather-worn walls.

[Illustration:  Perched on the summit was a ruined temple ]

A corner of the tiled roof had fallen in and a tree projected there
instead of a small dome, one of a group surrounding a larger central
dome, which was also in a battered state. As the boys reached the steps,
there was a sudden chatter from within the ruined temple, and troupes of
monkeys scampered out through the holes in the roof and the long window
slits in the walls.

"A good hiding place," decided Chandra, "if the monkeys have been using
it as their home."

"Then we can lie low here," Biff said, "until after the thugs have
gone."

They were entering through a fancifully tiled archway as Biff spoke.
Chandra extended a restraining hand as Biff turned toward an inner
corner, where a battered stone railing marked a stairway leading to a
floor below.

"Be careful where you lie low," warned Chandra. "These old places are
alive with deadly cobras."

"But how can the monkeys live with the snakes?"

"They don't. Monkeys stay up there"--Chandra pointed to a balcony where
tiny faces and quick little eyes were peering through what was left of a
once ornamental railing--"and the cobras live in the pits below."

Biff saw that the stairway was blocked by broken chunks from the floor,
but he eased away on the chance that a poisonous snake might be lurking
in the rubble. Kamuka, meanwhile, had crossed the floor to a small domed
platform that was reached by steps leading up from three sides. Kamuka
called:

"Biff," he called. "Come look! See who is here!"

Biff joined Kamuka and stared up at the most hideous idol he had ever
seen. It was carved from a dark wood and had white, glaring eyes formed
of tiny pearls with a jet-black stone in the center. Larger pearls
formed the teeth of an open mouth, from which a carved, red-painted
tongue extended.

The ferocious image had four arms extended from its body. One hand held
an actual knife with jeweled handle and long curved blade, as though
ready for a downward stroke. Another hand was raised in a warning
gesture. The third dangled a carved human head. The fourth hand was
thrust slightly forward and was cupped, but empty.

From the idol's neck hung a chain of human skulls, forming a huge,
grotesque necklace. Biff had already guessed the identity of the carved
horror, when Chandra arrived and gasped the name: "Kali!"

Biff stared at Chandra, wondering why he was so shaken. In a frightened
tone, Chandra exclaimed:

"This temple is old and broken, but the idol is a new one! We can't hide
here! This is where the thugs themselves meet to worship Kali. They have
driven us up into their trap, and they will come here to hunt us down.
See that hand, Biff, the one like a cup? It is supposed to hold blood,
so it is waiting for the big ruby that you carry!"

An odd fascination had gripped Biff as he studied the hideous figure of
Kali. He snapped out of it now.

"What are we waiting for?" he demanded. "Let's get out of here!"

They couldn't go out the way they had come in. Already, a long-drawn cry
was sounding from the path leading up to the temple. It was answered
almost from the doorway, and the boys realized now that other members of
the Kali cult must have been lurking in the fringes of the jungle,
watching their arrival.

Kamuka, quick as ever, pointed out a corner stairway leading up to a
stone balcony in the rear wall, just above the Kali statue. Sunlight
shone through a slitted window that was located there. Grabbing their
belongings, the boys raced up the steps, then along the balcony, where
they jumped its broken gaps. They reached the window slit and squeezed
themselves through to a narrow outer ledge, where they pressed their
backs against the wall and stared downward hopelessly.

They were high up in the temple now, the equivalent of about three
floors in an ordinary building. There, a full thirty feet below, was a
stone court at the rear of the temple wall. The paving was cracked, but
as hard as ever--anything but a happy landing.

Close to the wall was the circular rim of a stone well, but it was built
up only a few feet from the courtyard. Not a slit, not an opening showed
in the wall itself, as the boys studied it cautiously, except for a few
irregular cracks that would afford no hold whatever.

If they had arrived here sooner, they could have planned some way to
lower themselves to the courtyard, but that was too late for Biff and
his companions now.

Already, high-pitched cries of glee were sounding from within the very
walls of the crumbling temple that the thugs had turned into a trap
baited with their idol, Kali.




                                  VIII
                  "Move along, Biff--just a little--"


Chandra, crouched on the ledge, was holding a chunk of stone in his
extended hand as he pressed Biff slightly to one side. Chandra dropped
the stone, and Biff watched it plummet downward into the courtyard well,
where it struck with a splash that sent ripples spreading like a bull's
eye.

"Now watch me," said Chandra. He tossed his pack down into the courtyard
and stood straight up at the exact spot where he had crouched. "My feet
are here, by this mark. I step off to there"--he extended his arm
again--"and bring hands at sides, feet together...."

Chandra finished by doing just that. He stepped out into space, hands at
sides, brought his other foot forward and arrowed straight downward!
Biff and Kamuka watched amazed, expecting a crash landing. Instead,
Chandra followed the exact path of the stone that he had dropped. The
circular well seemed to spread its opening wide to receive him as he hit
the water with a sharp  plunk  and vanished.

Then, after what seemed interminable seconds, Chandra popped up from the
surface, reached his arms wide and pulled himself out of the well, which
Biff was pleased to see was larger in diameter than it looked. That,
Biff realized, was the real mental hazard.

"Either look straight ahead, Kamuka," he told his friend, tossing his
pack-kit and his Sikh turban down into the court, "or just shut your
eyes the way I am going to do. Anyway, stand right on Chandra's
mark"--Biff took that position as he spoke--"step off, bring your feet
together--"

With that, Biff, too, dropped. Never before had he known a split second
to divide itself into as many moments as those. All the way down, he was
wondering if his step had been too long or too short, or whether he had
let his body waver. Thirty feet seemed like thirty years, until Biff
punched the water squarely and went deep, deep, deep, then came upward
faster, faster, and hauled himself out the way Chandra had.

Before Chandra could extend congratulations to Biff, another pack-kit
hit the paving beside them. Kamuka was ready to take off, and for the
first time, Chandra expressed the worry that he really felt.

"Climb up quick, Biff!" he said, from his side of the well. "If Kamuka
misses--if he wiggles--we must keep him from hitting stones too hard!"

Biff came up on the opposite side, ready to help break Kamuka's fall,
but it proved unnecessary. A lithe brown form streaked feet first
between the ready hands that Biff and Chandra extended and was gone as
the water sprayed up from the well.

[Illustration:  Chandra popped up from the surface and reached his arms
wide ]

"Gone!" exclaimed Chandra. "Like Jinnah Jad says when I do basket trick.
Now watch me bring him back!"

He waved his hands above the well, and Kamuka bobbed up grinning.
Chandra and Biff grabbed his arms and hauled him out, anxious to get
started on their way. Picking up their luggage, they cut off to a far
corner of the courtyard where steps led down into another jungle path.

Minutes later, they were lost beneath a lattice of spreading green,
descending a slope that was leading them away from danger instead of
into it. Chandra began to chuckle happily and finally exploded into
mirth.

"They will never guess where we have gone," the Indian boy said
gleefully. "They will wait, those followers of Kali, thinking that we
will come creeping back like the monkeys and the cobras. They will look
for us and will think that we are hiding, waiting, somewhere in the
ancient temple."

"Maybe," put in Kamuka, "they will look where we jumped."

"What then?" rejoined Chandra. "They will find nothing. Everything will
be dry around the well by that time."

"I'll say it will," agreed Biff. "Our clothes are dry already. You
certainly found the quick way out, Chandra."

"Like I did from the porthole in your cabin," reminded Chandra. "You
said it was a good trick, so I showed you."

"But where did you learn it?"

"From my great-great-great-grandfather, up near Delhi. He still dropped
into an eighty-foot well when he was eighty years old."

Biff had heard of the famous well jumpers, who for centuries had
performed their amazing feat of dropping straight down an eighty-foot
shaft that was only eight feet wide. That dated back to when the Great
Moguls had ruled India and the skill had been handed down from father to
son for generations until the British government had forbidden it as too
dangerous.

"But I thought they stopped well jumping--"

Biff caught himself, afraid that he would offend Chandra, but the Indian
boy took it in good humor.

"You mean like they stop thugee?" laughed Chandra. "They tried, but
thugs go underground so we still go under water. The big
difference"--Chandra turned serious now--"was that thugs hurt other
people and  should  be stopped, but well jumpers hurt nobody but
themselves and even then, not very often."

"I guess not," agreed Biff, "or your great-great-grandfather wouldn't
have been in the game at eighty."

"My great-great-great-grandfather."

"My mistake," said Biff. "So your people still kept on jumping down
wells?"

"No, we obey the law," returned Chandra. "We stop. But we practice in
open pools, just like other people dive. Sometimes at night, we take
full moon as target. We drop a stone from a high riverbank, where the
moon shows in the water. Then we step off like we three just did."

"It's lucky you showed us how, Chandra," Biff said. "We never would have
tried it on our own. Would we, Kamuka?"

Kamuka shook his head emphatically. "I should say not!" he responded.

Fortunately, Biff, who was a good diver, had often stepped off
springboards or diving platforms as a stunt. Kamuka, too, had used the
same technique from the edge of high piers on the Amazon, when boats
were moored too close to allow a normal dive. So they had been ready and
able to copy Chandra's well jump without hesitation, when the time had
called for instant action.

A few hours of steady plodding along the gradually descending path
brought the boys to a level clearing studded with the remains of a
long-abandoned town. Piles of ancient bricks represented the walls of
houses, though enough were still standing to mark the lines of streets
and market squares. A slightly higher clearing showed a row of
sculptured stone pillars, remains of an ancient temple. From another
such space loomed the ruins of what must have been a maharajah's palace,
for its walls gleamed like alabaster in the sunlight.

"I have heard of this place," nodded Chandra. "They have been making
excavations here. Down a road we will come to a waterfall, then we will
go past big quarries, then finally we will reach the Grand Trunk Road."

Though the boys were practically sure that they had outdistanced any
pursuit, they still were taking no chances. They found the road that
Chandra mentioned, and though it was scarcely more than wheel ruts, the
hiking was good along it. After a few miles they came to the waterfall,
which tumbled from a rocky ledge amid the massed green foliage, forty
feet above. Its sheer descent ended in a rock-rimmed pool, which brought
a whimsical comment from Kamuka.

"Looks like the waterfall is trying a well jump itself. Maybe we should
go up and drop down with it, no?"

"No," agreed Biff. "But that pool looks deep enough for a good swim.
What's stopping us?"

Nothing was stopping them. By now, they were drenched with perspiration
after their steady hike, so a swim was in order. Soon they were
cavorting in the cool water, which was even deeper than they had
thought, and swimming close enough to the foot of the falls to catch its
spray, yet avoiding the pounding mass of falling water.

As Biff climbed out, Chandra called to him from the pool:

"Maybe you go back to your American clothes, hey? Nobody we meet will
guess who you are. You'll find them in my pack."

That was the best idea yet, for Biff was tired of his Sikh costume,
particularly the bothersome turban. While Chandra and Kamuka were
finishing their swim, Biff dressed in his own clothes. Then he strolled
over to look at an ancient stone platform that someone had uncovered
from the jungle roots.

The floor of burnt-clay bricks was set with colorful tiles that formed a
broken pattern and from the six-sided shape of the platform, Biff
decided it must have been a summerhouse frequented by the maharajah's
courtiers. Some of the broken tiles had been stacked at the edge of the
platform, and Biff picked them up to examine them.

They looked like some form of terra cotta, though they showed no traces
of a glaze. Biff was stooping to replace them, when he heard a hiss
behind him. Instantly, Biff wheeled about and instinctively voiced a
sharp, warning cry, even before he saw the thing that he knew would be
there.

Swelling up from the rubble was a scaly, bulbous neck, with odd,
heart-shaped markings that gave it the look of a face with leering eyes
and grinning lips. But the creature's own small head and beady eyes were
above that puffed-out neck that came rising higher, as token of its
deadly rage.

The hissing menace was a cobra, one of the most venomous snakes in
India. Rearing to a height of nearly two feet, the cobra was within
striking distance of Biff's leg, and poised, ready to deliver death from
its dreaded fangs!




                                   IX
                          The Man in the Jeep


Biff had given his quick cry as a warning to the other boys, though he
was the one who needed help. Fortunately, it worked both ways, for
Chandra, who had come from the pool and was putting on his clothes,
turned quickly in Biff's direction when he heard that sharp call.

Chandra didn't have to see the cobra to know that it was there. Often
before, he had seen and heard people react the way Biff had. In
response, Chandra automatically voiced a warning of his own:

"Don't move, Biff! Stay right where you are!"

That was about all that Biff could do. His quick spin had brought him
back against the stack of old bricks and tile. He would trip over them,
if he tried to retreat farther.

The cobra's mood was in a sense defensive, which made it all the more
dangerous. Biff had disturbed the snake; that was why it had risen to
action. Now it was waiting for some further motion to guide its deadly
stroke. The chance fall of a loose tile, the passing shadow of a bird in
flight might be enough. Unless something could completely divert the
snake, Biff's chances of getting clear seemed almost nil.

Grimly, Biff wished that their equipment included a shotgun, but the
boys had no firearms among them. Chandra was approaching, but all he
held was a little stick no longer than an ordinary ruler. Biff heard him
say to Kamuka:

"Get tree branch--with lots of leaves--have it ready when I reach for
it."

Biff groaned inwardly. A tree branch to fight off a cobra! Then Chandra
had placed the stick to his lips and was piping a tune. The stick was a
little flute!

Edging Biff's way, Chandra crouched until his shoulders were level with
Biff's waist. Facing the cobra, Chandra swayed slowly back and forth. As
if captivated by the tune, the cobra's hood began to bob in the same
rhythm!

Never, at the end of a swing, did Chandra give the cobra time to strike.
Playing the flute with one hand, Chandra reached over his far shoulder
with the other and gripped a leafy tree branch that Kamuka gave him.
Still swaying, Chandra carried the snake's attention more and more
toward the extended branch.

Deftly, Chandra thrust the branch forward and downward. The cobra struck
with all its deadly purpose, but its fangs met twigs and leaves, nothing
more. Chandra had dropped the branch and flung himself in the opposite
direction, jolting Biff away from danger in case the cobra turned and
tried to strike anew.

Kamuka, by then, was peppering the snake with stones that he had
gathered while bringing the tree branch. Under that barrage, the cobra
hastily sought refuge in the rubble, where Biff, after his close shave
with death, was very glad to see it go. "Whew!" he said, wiping
perspiration from his forehead. "Thanks, fellows! You're good men to
know! How did you learn to charm snakes, Chandra?" he asked. "Did Jinnah
Jad teach you that, too?"

"In a way, yes," Chandra acknowledged. "Jinnah Jad and I watched snake
charmers often. He told me how they do their tricks."

The boys gathered their packs and resumed their hike along the rutted
road.

"But how can music make snakes dance?" Kamuka asked abruptly. "In
Brazil, our snakes hear nothing except a big loud noise, when somebody
shoots a gun or whacks water with a paddle."

"In that case," said Biff, "it's probably more a matter of the snake
sensing a vibration than any keen hearing. Maybe that's why the flute
music sways them." He turned to Chandra. "Or is it?"

Chandra grinned. "Flute music makes me sway," he said, "so it makes the
cobra sway."

"Because it watches you," Biff said, "not because it hears the music? So
actually, you don't need the flute, do you?"

"But I do need it," insisted Chandra seriously. "Without it, I move too
slow or too fast." He swung his head lazily, then bobbed it in jerky
fashion. "But with music, I sway just right."

He brought out the flute and began to play it, giving his head and
shoulders the easy, rhythmic weave that they had followed before.

"You've convinced us, Chandra, so put it away," Biff said. With
pretended anxiety, he looked back over his shoulder. "Next thing, you'll
have a pack of cobras following us!"

More such banter spiced the hike until they reached the quarries, where
Biff called a halt because he wanted to study them. They were sandstone
quarries, dating back many centuries, and they were still being worked,
which interested Biff immensely. The road was much better from then on,
because it had to be kept in shape for the trucks that hauled the stone.
The boys passed a few of those trucks as they continued on their way.

It was afternoon when they reached the Grand Trunk Road, which lived up
to expectations. The hiking was pleasant and easy, for there were many
shade trees planted along the famous highway, some so tall that they
arched across the road. The boys saw elephants and camels, but ox-carts
were more common and seemed to be a highly popular mode of travel.

There were cars, too, and an occasional bus, but these modern vehicles
were badly handicapped by flocks of sheep that were in no hurry to get
off the road. There were throngs of pilgrims also, who added to the
traffic tangle. Most exasperating of all were the cows, which were held
in such high esteem that there was no rushing them at all. They just
took their own sweet time and let motorists chafe.

Biff and his companions were specially aware of this when they overtook
the same jeep no less than three times. It was driven by a man who wore
a blue beret, a pair of sunglasses, and a white shirt with short
sleeves. He first went whizzing by the boys as though he intended to
burn up the road for miles ahead, but they soon caught up with him,
following patiently behind an assortment of pilgrims, ox-carts, and
sheep. On foot, the boys could work their way through that medley, but
the jeep couldn't.

Again, after the jeep had passed them, they came upon it parked beside a
tea stand. The boys themselves stopped later at a village inn, for by
this time they were ravenously hungry. It was there that the jeep roared
by the second time. But when they caught up with it again, stalled
behind a herd of sacred cows, the driver had taken off his beret and
glasses and was asleep behind the wheel, as if he didn't care.

Chandra, by then, was worried over their own problems. Their long detour
by jungle paths had delayed them more than he had anticipated, and their
heavy hiking of the morning had caused them to loiter, once they were on
the Grand Trunk Road. Now, all three were tired and showing it.

"We won't make Supari tonight," declared Chandra. "Not at this rate."

"Does it matter?" asked Biff. "I saw other people camping in a mango
grove, so why can't we?"

"It would not be safe for us," insisted Chandra. "We were marked once;
we may be marked again."

"Maybe we can get a hitchhike--"

Biff was interrupted by the honking of horns from two cars that had come
up behind the jeep. The man behind the wheel awoke with a start, saw
that the cows were ambling off the road ahead and that the other cars
were anxious to go through. Apparently he was still sleepy, for he
pulled the jeep aside and let the traffic pass. Mopping his forehead
with a big blue handkerchief, the man looked from behind the wheel and
saw the three boys with their packs. He called in English:

"Wait, there! Can any of you chaps drive a jeep?"

"Yes," replied Biff, stepping over to the jeep. "I can."

"Then pile your packs on board," the man invited, "and take the wheel.
I'm dog-tired and I need some sleep, but I still have to get somewhere
tonight."

Despite the man's English speech and manner, he had something of an
Oriental look, and when Biff met his gaze, he felt a fleeting
recollection of having seen the man before. Then Biff was smiling at the
way he had let his own memory trick him. Naturally, he'd seen the man
before--twice when they'd caught up with the jeep--three times when it
had gone by Biff and his companions.

The man was already moving from behind the wheel, so Biff took over and
waved for Chandra and Kamuka to get in back, which they did, packs and
all. Neatly, Biff zigzagged the jeep in among the dispersing cows and
stepped up to a twenty-mile-an-hour rate that seemed a break-neck speed
after a day of plodding on foot. The owner of the jeep evidently
approved of Biff's driving, for he promptly drifted into a satisfied
doze.

Slowdowns and halts were frequent, of course, and during those
intervals, Biff took a closer look at the sleeping man. He noted that
the man's hair was dark and shocky, his complexion tawny, his features
broad but smooth, except when he let his chin slump down too far; then,
his jowls looked heavy. Most noticeable were his ears, which spread out
quite widely from his head. Otherwise, he was handsome, in a rugged way,
and he looked vigorous for his age, which Biff placed somewhere in the
forties.

Before an hour was up, Chandra spoke from the back seat. "We are getting
near Supari now!" he said. At the sound of the strange voice, the
broad-faced man woke up and was immediately alert. Only for an instant
did he appear puzzled at seeing Biff at the wheel of the jeep. Then,
with a broad smile, he said. "Supari. That is not far from Keewal, the
place where I am going."

"You are going to the old game preserve?" inquired Chandra politely.

"Yes," the man replied. "The head  shikari  has invited me to a tiger
hunt there." He turned to Biff. "Take the next side road, and I will
drop you off near Supari. I can then go on to Keewal."

It was more than a mile to the side road, and Biff would have missed it
if Chandra hadn't pointed it out, for it was merely ruts, like the road
they had followed earlier in the day. And such ruts! At times they
disappeared in grass so thick that Biff had to guide the jeep by the
clearing in the low, scrubby trees ahead.

All the while, the broad-faced man smiled approvingly at the way Biff
handled the jeep, while Biff himself was glad that he was not driving a
more conventional type of car. At one place, the ruts reappeared, to
turn themselves into a bridge consisting of two tree trunks, smoothed to
form treadways only about a foot in width. But Biff rode over them
perfectly, although the slightest sideslip would have dumped the jeep
and its occupants into a ten-foot gully.

Then the ruts became an actual road, which was alternately a series of
rocky ledges which made the jeep jump, or dust so deep that the car
wallowed to its axles. Yet the man with the broad, rugged face never
spoke a word, but left the driving up to Biff, as did the boys in back.
It was only when Biff made a sharp turn into a slightly smoother but
still dusty stretch that Chandra spoke up:

"We get off here to go to Supari."

It wasn't yet sunset, and they had made it! The huts of the village
showed across the open fields, a mile away, with clumps of thick woods
forming a colorful background. As Biff stepped from the jeep, the
broad-faced man moved over behind the wheel and clapped his hand on
Biff's shoulder in approval.

"Look me up at Keewal," the stranger said. "I can use you as an
alternate driver on my next trip. The head shikari will tell you where
to find me."

He was sliding the jeep into gear as Biff and the other boys stood
there, shouldering their packs.

"May I ask your name, sir?" Biff inquired.

The rugged man smiled broadly, as he gave it:

"Just ask for Barma Shah."

With that, the jeep was off in a cloud of its own dust and Biff was
echoing in amazement: "Barma Shah!"




                                   X
                             The Tiger Hunt


All the way across the fields to the village, Biff was brimming with
excitement because they had met Barma Shah, the secret agent mentioned
by Diwan Chand, and the all-important contact to Biff's father. But
Biff's enthusiasm was marred by disappointment.

"If I'd only told him who I was!" he exclaimed. "All the while I was
driving the jeep, I was holding back on that, thinking that to say
anything to anybody might be giving ourselves away."

"Barma Shah is very smart," reminded Chandra. "Perhaps he knew who you
were."

"What makes you think that, Chandra?"

"We kept seeing jeep over and over. It went past us--we went past it--as
if it was keeping watch on us."

"But that was due to all the traffic--"

"Traffic did not hold us up after Sahib Shah let you drive his jeep.
Next thing, we were practically here at Supari."

"You may be right, Chandra," Biff agreed.

They had reached the actual village now, a mass of closely built huts
with mud walls and tiled roofs, surrounded by yapping, nondescript dogs.
It was almost sundown, and from this central point, the fields and trees
looked dark and gaunt against the spreading purple of the sky. Now
people, mostly in native costumes, were flocking out, first in alarm,
then in a wild welcome when they recognized Chandra.

Biff and Kamuka were included in the villagers' enthusiasm, and then
Chandra's uncle, the  patwari , was greeting them and introducing them,
in turn, to the  patel , or head man of the village. The boys were
supplied with cups of rich, delicious milk, and later they were taken to
a modern building that served as school and community house, a symbol of
the new India.

There, they feasted on tasty curry and rice, followed by fruits and
cakes. Chandra, meanwhile, kept up a running chatter with his uncle and
other villagers, mixing English with Hindi and the local native dialect.
From the tone of the talk, Biff and Kamuka gathered that something quite
serious was afoot. Chandra finally supplied the details.

"You will meet Barma Shah very soon," Chandra told Biff, "because my
uncle tells me that the head shikari at Keewal has asked the village
people to help trap a tiger tomorrow night."

"Aren't tigers usually hunted in the daytime?"

"Not this kind," declared Chandra. "This tiger is a cattle stealer, and
lately he has prowled near the village, killing people after dark. That
is why there was so much excitement when we arrived close to nightfall."

As they left the community house, Biff heard the incessant barking of
the dogs on the fringe of the town. Watchmen with big spears were on
patrol. Many lanterns were aglow, showing that the village was tense and
alert. Wisps of grayish smoke coiled from the chimneys and wavered, like
fading ghosts, against the vast blackness of the starlit sky.

But when they entered the snug hut which Chandra smilingly termed their
 daulat-khana , or "palace," Biff felt that the outside world was far
away. His bed was a simple  charpoy --tapes strung to its frame instead
of springs or mattress--but Biff was so tired that nothing could have
been more comfortable. The calls of the patrolling watchmen, the distant
barking of the dogs, simply lulled him off to solid sleep.

It was nearly noon when Biff awoke. He and Kamuka followed Chandra
around the village, where they saw weavers, shoemakers, carpenters, and
blacksmiths at work. Chandra explained that they were paid off in crops
raised by the farmers who made up most of the community. But today, the
carpenters and metal workers were combining their efforts in
constructing huge wooden frames that were set with heavy bars of iron.

"Why, that looks like a big portable cage!" Biff exclaimed.

Chandra's uncle, the patwari, was standing by. He smiled and responded,
"It is exactly that. Tonight, we use it to trap the killer tiger."

"You mean he may walk right into it?"

"No, no!" The patwari shook his head. "The bars are to keep the tiger
out, so the living bait will be safe inside the cage."

"But don't you just stake out some animal?" asked Biff. "So the tiger
will think it is loose?"

"Usually we do that with a pig or buffalo," replied Chandra's uncle,
"but this tiger has tasted human blood. So tonight we will try human
bait. That is the purpose of the cage."

"And the bait," put in Chandra proudly, "will be Kamuka and myself. We
are going in with Thakur, the head watchman and chief hunter of the
village."

"We are sorry to leave you out, Biff," added Kamuka in explanation. "You
were still asleep when they asked us, and it was only after we said,
'Yes,' that we found they only had room for two."

Biff thought at first that his friends were joking, but it turned out
they were quite in earnest. The cage had been specially designed for
Thakur and two lookouts, preferably boys. But the village youths had
become so tiger-conscious that they were seeing jungle cats every time a
leaf stirred in the underbrush. So Chandra and Kamuka had been recruited
for the job instead.

Biff put on a show of disappointment, if only to impress Chandra's uncle
and the other villagers.

"Maybe Barma Shah, the man with the jeep, will want me to help him,"
Biff said. "I'll ask him when I see him."

Late in the afternoon, the barred frames were ready, and they were
hauled by ox-cart to a  shola , or patch of jungle not far from the
town. That was where the tiger had attacked and slain its victims, so
the villagers had shunned the place for the past few days.

During that period, Matapar, the head Shikari from Keewal, had put up
platforms in surrounding trees, covering the open area where the tiger
liked to prowl. By now, he hoped the tiger would be used to it, but the
cage idea did not appeal to Matapar. That had been thought up by Thakur,
the village huntsman.

So Matapar and the other shikaris watched silently, almost glumly, while
Thakur and his helpers set up the cage close to a thicket that they
thought would be inviting to the tiger. They were fixing the frames
together with crude bolts when Barma Shah drove up in his jeep, wearing
his pulled-down beret and dark sun glasses.

Biff walked over to meet him and as Barma Shah nodded a greeting, Biff
announced, "I am Biff Brewster."

"I was sure of that," rejoined Barma Shah, extending his hand in
greeting, "but because of your mission I thought it best to introduce
myself first and let you make the next move."

"I'm doing that now," stated Biff. "Sir--what have you heard from my
father? Where is he?"

Despite himself, Biff betrayed anxiety in his tone. Barma Shah noticed
it and put reassurance into his reply.

"I haven't heard from him," he said, "but I know that he went to Kashmir
and that he has probably--gone on from there. His mission was there,
mine was in Calcutta."

Barma Shah paused and glanced about to make sure that no one was close
enough to hear. Then he inquired:

"You have the ruby Diwan Chand gave you?"

Biff fingered the bag beneath his shirt collar and nodded. "Right here,"
he said.

"Good. Your father will be needing it. We can talk more of this
tomorrow."

Barma Shah was carrying a modern rifle with what appeared to be a large
telescopic sight mounted on top of the barrel. That reminded Biff of an
important request.

"The other boys are going into the cage with Thakur," he stated. "Could
you post me on a platform or somewhere, sir?"

Barma Shah paused a moment, then nodded. "I have the perfect job for
you. I need a driver for the jeep, which I am keeping in reserve with
two shikaris, in case anything goes wrong. By turning it over to you, I
can post myself on one of the platforms."

By sundown, the scene was set. Thakur was in the cage, gripping a big
shotgun and flanked by Chandra and Kamuka, each armed with a spear.
Barma Shah had picked himself a platform up in a tree. Matapar and other
shikaris were up on their platforms, all at ideal range. Biff was as far
off in the jeep as space would allow, down at the end of a long, smooth
gully that practically formed a roadway to the clearing. In the back
seat, two more shikaris sat ready with their rifles.

But as dusk gathered, tension grew. The cage was the focal spot. If the
tiger approached too close, Thakur was to drive him back with quick
shots. Then Barma Shah, Matapar, and the rest would open fire with their
rifles, covering practically the entire clearing. Biff's job was to come
up with the jeep, only when needed--early, if anything went badly wrong;
later, if all went well.

From the way things had been planned, they seemed likely to go well, but
that depended partly on the tiger. Usually, he picked his victims just
before dark, but this evening he was wary. Chandra and Kamuka gave
occasional calls, putting a frightened tremolo into their voices, hoping
to coax the striped terror into seeking them. But the darkness thickened
and then became almost total in the clearing, before the cunning cat
decided to strike.

Then it happened, like the surge of an invisible fury. Sharp-eyed though
they were, neither Chandra nor Kamuka caught the slightest glimpse of
the five-hundred-pound tiger until its ten feet of furred lightning
landed squarely on the cage with the destructive force of a living
thunderbolt. The cage buckled, hurling the occupants on their backs.
Thakur's shotgun spouted straight upward, missing the tiger entirely, as
the creature, somewhat jolted, recoiled to the ground in front.

Thakur, coming to his knees, aimed at the spot where the tiger crouched,
but as he fired the second barrel, the furred fury made another high,
hard spring, clearing the path of aim. Again, the cage was jarred, and
now Thakur, desperate, grabbed a spear from Chandra and jabbed wildly
through the bars, blindly trying to drive off the snarling killer that
he could not see.

Given time, Thakur might have made a telling thrust; but meanwhile, the
tiger threatened to maul the cage apart. The framework was splintering
under the fierce stroke of its claws. With each new spring, the iron
bars were loosened. Barma Shah and the others on the platforms could not
open fire with their rifles, for Thakur, so far, had failed to drive the
tiger back. In the darkness, their shots would be more likely to hit
Thakur or the boys.

The clanging echoes carried far down the gully, where Biff was puzzled
by the lack of rifle fire, but not for long. Biff realized what must be
going on, when the clashing sounds continued; and so did the men in
back. Their grunts practically said, "Get going!" as did the clicks from
their rifles, when they released the safety catches.

Biff got going, as he had been told to do in such an emergency. He
gunned the jeep into life, shot it straight up the gully, guiding by the
outline of the clearing against the starry sky. The speeding jeep
wallowed in the gully's slopes, then reached the open ground as Biff
clicked on the lights and jammed the brakes.

The sudden glare outlined the whole front of the cage, showing the tiger
turning, snarling at the sound of the jeep's approaching roar. Briefly,
the tiger was blinded and helpless, giving the men in the jeep their
opportunity. They sprang out, dodged over toward the brush, and opened
fire. One shot grazed the tiger; another clipped him, as he bounded away
from the cage, spun in the air and sprawled beyond the light.

The shikaris from the jeep started over to examine their prize, but
paused when warning shouts came from both the cage and the tree
platforms. Half-stunned, the tiger picked itself up, snarled at the two
shikaris as they dived away from the light. Then the tiger itself took
to the darkness on the other side, but not in flight.

It had another purpose. It wanted to claw, to rip apart its real
tormentor, the thing with the blazing eyes that had interrupted the
tiger's efforts to reach its caged prey. That thing was the jeep. In the
darkness, the wounded tiger turned suddenly upon it.

Biff raised a shout as he heard an approaching snarl. The jeep heaved
upward, sideward as the tiger's bulk hit it between hood and windshield.
In the dim glow from the dashlight, Biff could see the monstrous,
clawing shape of the man-killer as it gathered itself for a final spring
upon the new prey it had so unexpectedly found.

Through Biff's stunned mind ran the freakish notion that whatever luck
the Light of the Lama had brought him, the ruby's charm had lost its
power by now.




                                   XI
                          A Thief in the Night


In their half-wrecked cage, Chandra and Kamuka realized all too
thoroughly how the prospect of sure death had switched from them to
Biff. After their experience, his frantic shout told them everything. It
was pitch dark in back of the jeep's headlights. The marksmen in the
trees couldn't even guess the tiger's location, let alone stop it with a
chance shot.

But it wasn't a chance shot that came. From one of the platforms, a
sharp beam of light cut a thin path through the blackness, turning a
brilliant spotlight on the open jaws and glittering eyes of the great
beast that was already mashing the jeep's windshield with its mammoth
paw.

That sudden shaft of light was a bull's-eye in itself. Now, if a rifle
muzzle could only score an identical hit! As that hope sprang to the
boys who watched from the cage, it was answered in a realistic way. A
rifle crackled. The tiger's big head jolted back, and its snarl broke.

Biff saw that happen as he looked up from behind the wheel. Now, the
tiny circle of light was focused just behind the tiger's ear. Again, the
rifle spoke. The tiger's whole body came forward, but not in a lunge.
Instead, its quarter-ton of dead weight landed across the jeep's hood,
crushing it down upon the motor. Then the striped body rolled to the
ground, where the sharp beam picked it out again, probing it from head
to tail.

No further shots were necessary. Biff came up shakily behind the wheel,
found that the jeep would still run, and backed it so the headlights
shone full on the tiger. The creature not only was motionless; its odd,
distorted pose proved that life had left it.

Barma Shah came down from his platform, bringing the rifle with the
thing that looked like a telescopic sight above the barrel. Only it
wasn't a telescopic sight; it was a special flashlight powered by
multiple batteries and focused down to almost a needle-beam.

"I knew I might need this," declared Barma Shah, "so I tested it last
night, at just the right range. The light is the rifle's sight." He
lifted the gun, pointed it up into the trees and picked out the top step
leading to the platform that he had just left. "Just spot your target,
pull the trigger, and that's it."

"That  was  it," complimented Biff, "but it took a good cool hand and
steady nerves to do it."

Barma Shah's ragged features spread into a broad smile. He suggested
that instead of going back to the village, the boys accompany him to the
hunting lodge at Keewal. Biff accepted the invitation, but Chandra
wanted to return to Supari to give the villagers a first-hand account of
his harrowing experience in the cage. Naturally, he needed Kamuka to
support his testimony, so Barma Shah agreed to pick them up at Supari in
the morning.

The Keewal hunting lodge impressed Biff immensely, as it was equipped
with all modern conveniences including air conditioning. It also had a
telephone, to which Barma Shah gestured, as soon as he and Biff were
alone. Then, with a broad, pleased smile, he declared:

"I talked with Calcutta by long distance this afternoon. You will be
glad to know that Diwan Chand and his gatekeeper, Nathu, came out all
right. Nobody was after them."

Biff grinned, then became serious. "I know that," he said. "They were
after me--and this."

Biff brought out the watertight container. From it, he took the chamois
bag, then the jewel case, finally, the huge, glowing ruby. He handed the
jewel to Barma Shah, who studied it as though he had seen it often.
Then, as the stone's glint suddenly became more vivid, Biff added,
"Diwan Chand said its sparkle showed that the charm was working well.
But you had a lot to do with that tonight."

"Tonight, perhaps, yes." Barma Shah returned the gem to Biff and shook
his head. "But the other day, if I had known you would run into that
trouble at Chand's, I would have gone there myself, instead."

"But Mr. Chand said that you were marked."

"True. But so were you, as it turned out."

"Yes," agreed Biff, "but Chandra helped me out fast enough. Our real
trouble was with the thugs on the road."

"Thugs? On the road? Tell me about that."

Biff detailed the incidents of the train trip, the detour by the old
abandoned temple, and their final arrival on the Grand Trunk Road. As he
concluded the account, Barma Shah shook his head again.

"And to think that I let you go through all that," he said, "while I was
waiting for you on the Grand Trunk Road."

"But how," queried Biff, "did you know that we were coming that way?"

"From your father," explained Barma Shah. "He told me all about Chandra,
the boy who worked for Jinnah Jad. That is why I came here to Keewal, so
I would be near the village of Supari, where Chandra's uncle lives.
Naturally, Chandra would bring you there."

"But how did we happen to come along just when you were here for a tiger
hunt and the villagers were so terribly excited over it?"

"They are always tiger hunting here at Keewal," replied Barma Shah with
a smile, "and the people in Supari are easily excited. If Matapar cries,
'Tiger! Tiger!' he knows that Thakur will bring out the villagers as
beaters by day and even as bait by night."

"I never thought of that."

"And I never realized that the thugs were so active again," commented
Barma Shah. "The way the Kali cult took over that old temple is
surprising indeed. I shall notify the local authorities and have them
investigate it. Perhaps it is more widespread than it appears."

The next day, Barma Shah and Biff drove over to the village and picked
up Chandra and Kamuka. They continued on their way, laughing over the
fact that of all the party, the one that had taken the worst beating
from the tiger hunt was the jeep. However, the staunch vehicle was in
good running order, and the boys began to enjoy their tour with Barma
Shah.

A tour it actually became, for Barma Shah decided it should be that way.
He even insisted that Chandra put on European clothes similar to what
Biff and Kamuka were wearing. So they stopped at the first important
town on the Grand Trunk Road and bought Chandra his new outfit.

Chandra was amazed when he studied himself in a big mirror at the
clothing store.

"This is better than any jadoo," decided Chandra. "If Jinnah Jad should
put me in the basket wearing my old clothes and bring me out in new,
like these, people would think I was a different boy."

"You'd have to make jadoo yourself," returned Biff. "It would take real
magic for you to change clothes while you are curled around the inside
of that basket."

Chandra laughed at that, and then the laugh was turned on Biff when
Barma Shah picked out a woven straw hat with a rounded, dome-shaped
crown and broad, sharply down-turned brim. He placed it on Biff's head,
saying, "Try this on for size." The hat was so big that it came clear
down over Biff's eyes, the brim hiding his face almost to the jawline.

"Looks like Biff is trying the basket trick himself," observed Chandra
merrily. "Where did he go, Kamuka?"

"I don't know," replied Kamuka. "Last I saw, he was climbing into a
basket that looked like a hat. Now he is vanished. Complete."

Biff whipped off the hat, somewhat red-faced and flustered, only to
enjoy a laugh himself when he saw Chandra and Kamuka peering over
counters and behind racks as though they were trying to find where he
had gone. Then Barma Shah was handing Biff some smaller hats of the same
style, and among them, Biff discovered one that was just his size.

"Very good," approved Barma Shah. "That brim still comes low enough to
hide your hair rather well, and the sun visor helps too."

The visor was of dark, transparent plastic set in the front of the hat
brim, and it added somewhat to the depth of Biff's tan. It proved
helpful, too, when Biff was driving the jeep, for Barma Shah decided to
travel along secondary highways that lacked the shade provided by the
Grand Trunk Road.

Traffic, too, was less, but rough stretches of road slowed their trip.
There were delays, too, at rivers where there were no bridges, only
ferries that looked like tiny floats or rafts, the sort that might tip
the jeep into the first current they encountered. But the rafts were
well balanced, and the natives were skillful with their poles and oars.
Each crossing was made without incident.

Barma Shah had brought sleeping bags and bedding so that they could stop
at  dak  bungalows, or rest houses, along the way. To all appearances,
Barma Shah might have been a private tutor taking some privileged
scholars on an educational tour of the Indian byroads; and in fact, the
boys were learning a lot.

Biff was especially impressed by the monkeys. He thought he had already
seen a lot of them in India, but now they were boldly jumping over the
jeep whenever it stopped and ready to snatch up whatever they saw and
wanted. Chandra said there were a hundred million monkeys in India. Biff
was ready to believe it when they stopped at a dak bungalow near Agra
and had to slam doors in the faces of the creatures to keep them from
coming in the bedrooms.

That afternoon they drove into Agra to see the famed Taj Mahal on the
bank of the Jamuna River. One of the world's most beautiful buildings,
it impressed Biff as a dream brought to reality in living marble. Later,
they went to a telegraph office where Biff sent a wire to his mother,
which simply stated:

             ALL WELL. STILL ON WAY. LOVE TO YOU AND TWINS.

Barma Shah decided that the telegram told enough, yet not too much. He
smiled when Biff also showed him a postcard with a picture of the Taj
Mahal, which had the printed statement:  India's most priceless jewel,
for you to hold in memory . Under that, Biff had written, "And I really
am holding it, bag and all. Biff." He had addressed the card to Likake
Mahenili at Darjeeling.

"Send it," decided Barma Shah. "Only your Hawaiian friend will know that
you mean the ruby rather than the Taj Mahal."

After dinner at a restaurant in Agra, they drove back to view the Taj by
moonlight, when its graceful marble dome and slender minarets were
softened into an incomparable silvery whiteness, a striking contrast to
its splendor by day.

They were still talking about the Taj when they arrived back at the rest
house, where they reduced their tones to whispers rather than rouse the
monkeys, which apparently had gone to sleep in the trees. But when Biff
himself was dozing off, he heard occasional patter on the roof and
scratchy sounds outside his window, indicating that some of the
creatures were about.

In his dreams, Biff could see monkeys swarming over everything, even the
Taj Mahal, until oddly, they seemed to be clambering over the cot
itself. Still half asleep, yet aware of where he was, Biff could feel
their breath on his face, their pesky hands clutching at the bag
containing the ruby.

Then Biff's eyes came open. He made a convulsive grab with both hands.
In the filtering moonlight from the window, he saw a face that was human
in size and form, yet leering like a monkey's. He caught hands that were
human, too, but long, thin-fingered, and as writhing in their touch as a
snake's coils.

Swiftly, expertly, those hands had grabbed the pouch that contained the
great ruby and were twisting its chain around Biff's neck like a
strangle cord!




                                  XII
                           A Double Surprise


The struggle that followed was frantic but brief. It couldn't have
lasted long, for Biff was unable to wrench the attacker's hands from the
chain that they so cruelly twisted. It was already cutting off Biff's
breath and blood supply, so that his eyes were seeing black spots in the
moonlight.

Biff shifted his grip to his attacker's throat, but it didn't help. If
anything, it made him twist the chain harder. Biff couldn't call for
help, though the walls of the bungalow were thin enough for even a
gargly cry to be heard. But there was a way to make people hear.

As he lashed about, Biff managed to shove the cot away from the wall.
Then, wrenching himself to a new position, he began kicking the wall
with his feet, pounding a terrific drum beat. There was a muffled,
excited cry from the next room, then answering shouts above the din that
Biff was raising. The whole dak bungalow was aroused.

Right then, Biff was hoping to jab his attacker's neck nerves, judo
style, which would have turned the tables completely. But his squirmy
foe didn't wait. He managed to yank the ruby bag clear from its chain.
Gripping his prize, he twisted away, turned, and bounded for the window.

Biff beat him there, by rolling over on his hands and knees, then
blocking the fugitive with a headlong dive. The squirmy man turned and
darted toward the door, just as it burst open and Barma Shah came
driving in. He met the attacker and snatched for the bag, which came
open, spilling out the ruby. By then, Biff was piling into the fray. He
and Barma Shah both grabbed for the gleaming gem, while the squirmy man
took off empty-handed.

It was Barma Shah who saved the ruby with one hand, while he held Biff
back with the other. Chandra and Kamuka were already taking up the chase
from their rooms, as were other guests. Coolly, Barma Shah told Biff:

"Leave it to them. We don't want people to know what the fellow was
after. Here is the ruby, so put it away again."

The advice was good, so Biff accepted it. For the moment, he wondered if
they'd really regained the ruby, for it looked as dull as a lump of
coal, there in Barma Shah's hand. But as Biff took it, all the gem's
luster returned and it scintillated in the moonlight with a vivid fire
that seemed to throw off living sparks. Satisfied, Biff put the ruby
back in its bag.

The excitement roused hundreds of monkeys from their tree bunks, and
with all their jumping and chatter, no one was able to catch up with
Biff's attacker. The  khansama  who kept the dak bungalow was all
apologies when an examination showed that Biff's window screen had been
loosened--by whom, no one knew. Barma Shah, as spokesman for the boys,
dismissed it as a trifling matter.

But in the morning, Barma Shah went into Agra to talk to the police. He
returned in time for an early lunch which the khansama, who was cook as
well as innkeeper, had specially prepared. It consisted of  dalmoth , or
fried lentils with thin shavings of lentil paste; and it was followed by
a dish of  petha , a crystallized melon served in slices.

When Barma Shah and the boys pulled away in the jeep, he had made no
further mention of the near-robbery of the night before. But as they
rode along the highway toward Delhi, Barma Shah discussed the matter
with the boys.

"The police weren't impressed," Barma Shah declared. "They say there is
nothing to this talk of  thugee  coming back in the form of a Kali cult.
People are simply confusing them with roving bands of thieves, like the
old  pindaris . Other countries have gangsters, why not India?"

"But we saw the Kali statue--" Biff began.

"I know. Well," declared Barma Shah, "whether that man last night was a
petty thief or a thug playing a lone hand to deceive us, we won't take
more chances."

Barma Shah's method was simple. They drove on to Delhi and pulled into
the old city after dark. There, Barma Shah let the boys off on a quiet
street and continued on alone in the jeep toward Simla. He had given
them an address where they could find him.

Only a block from where they were dropped off, the boys came to a
rooming house that Barma Shah had mentioned. They stayed there overnight
and began planning their next step, which was to reach the American
Embassy without attracting special notice.

"See what you can find out, Chandra," suggested Biff. "Say that you're a
student who would like to know about the United States. Remember, there
are a lot of American nations, so be sure to specify the United States.
Maybe we can slide you in there to pave the way for me."

All this was in keeping with advice from Diwan Chand in Calcutta, which
Barma Shah in his turn had stressed even more; namely, that spies might
be watching every move that Biff made. Events along the line had
definitely underlined the need for caution. So Chandra, still wearing
his European clothes, set out on a hired bicycle, the most popular type
of transportation in India's capital city of New Delhi, which adjoined
the old Mogul capital of Delhi.

A few hours later, Chandra rejoined the other boys in a colorful bazaar
where he had left them.

"I have good news," he exclaimed. "Every week, students go by special
bus to meet and talk with ambassadors from other countries."

"That sounds like a United Nations proposition," commented Biff.

"No, no," returned Chandra. "I checked that. They go to a different
country's embassy every week. So I look at the list, and what do you
think is next? United States! Tomorrow!"

"Nice work," approved Biff. "That sounds like our ticket, all right."

"It is our ticket, all right." Chandra grinned. "Three tickets for bus
tomorrow. I ask and I get them. So we go along with big crowd, and
nobody will guess who we are."

Since the students were all from Indian schools located in New Delhi and
elsewhere, Chandra and Kamuka decided to stay in their European clothes;
but Biff, somewhat to his annoyance, had to switch back to his Sikh
costume. Otherwise he would be spotted for an American and perhaps for
himself, Biff Brewster, if some keen observer happened to be looking for
him.

"I suppose any Sikh students will be wearing their native garb, too,"
commented Biff, "like the railroad guards on the train. So don't let
them spot me for a phony the way that man with the fake beard did on the
Howrah bus."

"Funny thing," said Chandra, "I keep thinking about him every now and
then, I don't know just why. But don't worry. Kamuka and I will talk to
people so they won't bother you."

The bus tickets were simply cards that said  Student  in English and its
equivalent in Hindi characters. They were accepted without question, and
the boys took seats well back in the bus, which was nearly full when it
started. All was fine until they stopped at a building where Biff looked
up and saw a flag with three vertical stripes--red, white, and green.

"You've made a mistake, Chandra," Biff groaned. "This can't be the
American Embassy. That's not the United States flag."

"It must be," argued Chandra. "Lots of countries change their flags.
Maybe your country changes its flag, too."

"No, we don't change the United States flag."

From the bus window, Biff saw the flag flutter slightly, and now he
noticed the emblem of an eagle on the white stripe.

"That's the Mexican flag," exclaimed Biff. As a sudden thought struck
him, he asked, "Just what did that list say, Chandra?"

"It said students would pay visit to the embassy of the United States
of--of--"

"The United States of Mexico!"

"Yes, that was it."

"It's my fault, Chandra," conceded Biff. "I forgot that Mexico is
officially known as the United States of Mexico. I should have told you
the United States of America. Then you'd have checked on the American
Embassy." He turned to Kamuka. "Dumb of me, wasn't it?"

"Maybe I was dumb, too," returned Kamuka. "If I had told Chandra to look
for United States of Brazil, he would have brought us to the Brazilian
Embassy. I could tell our story there."

"You're right, Kamuka," acknowledged Biff. "We had two chances out of
three and we missed. Well, we can't sit here. We will have to follow the
crowd." Follow the crowd they did. As the last three off the bus, Biff
and his companions tagged on into the Mexican Embassy and slid into a
rear corner of the reception room where the students were seated.
Members of the Mexican diplomatic corps proceeded to hold open forum
with the students of New India, exchanging views on their respective
countries. After an hour's session was completed, the students started
out, shaking hands with the Embassy staff as they went.

Again, Biff and his companions held back. They were able to ease along
behind the students, who were so interested in exchanging their own
views that they did not notice the dragging trio. Biff particularly, was
glad to avoid the handshakes. The diplomats showed interest in a few
genuine Sikh students, and Biff was afraid he would be asked
embarrassing questions.

There was just one greeter they could not avoid. Outside the reception
room, a Mexican youth of about Biff's age had come up to shake hands
with the students and was chatting briefly with them. Fortunately, his
back was partly turned, so Biff saw a way to avoid him.

"You shake hands with him first, Kamuka," Biff whispered, "but keep
moving or he may guess that you are a Brazilian. You crowd in fast,
Chandra, and keep him talking while I slide by--"

They had reached the youth by then, and Kamuka's handshake was over too
quickly. Chandra, caught off stride, could not think what to say, so the
young Mexican politely bowed him on with a brief shake; then turned with
perfect poise to meet the last departing visitor, Biff.

The Mexican's expression was momentarily quizzical as he studied the
face beneath the Sikh turban. Chandra and Kamuka, glancing back, were
sure Biff was getting by with his disguise when, to their horror, Biff
himself gave the game away. As though suddenly gone crazy, Biff flung
away his turban, sprang forward, grabbed the Mexican boy's shoulders,
and began shaking the poise right out of him.

The surprised youth gasped and grabbed at Biff as if in self-defense.
Chandra and Kamuka turned to ward off any students who might come back
to mix in the fray, only to see that they were all alone. That was when
they heard Biff shout:

"Mike Arista!"

Then Chandra and Kamuka realized that it wasn't a fight at all, but just
a genuine, heartfelt form of mutual recognition, as the Mexican boy
exclaimed:

"Biff Brewster!"




                                  XIII
                             Biff's Mission


The excitement of the meeting over, Biff realized that introductions
were in order. He turned to Chandra and Kamuka.

"This is Miguel Arista--Mike to us," Biff said. "He and I met in Mexico,
where we went hunting for a lost Aztec treasure. We had some tough
adventures together." Biff turned to Mike.

"This is Kamuka," Biff continued. "I told you once about the trip that I
took up the Amazon with him. And this is Chandra, the newest member of
the team. He steered us through a lot of trouble from Calcutta to New
Delhi."

"And I am glad he did," returned Mike. "We've been watching for you
everywhere, that is, for you and Kamuka, Biff. We hadn't heard about
Chandra. We alerted the American and Brazilian Embassies in case you
turned up there. So, of all things, you walked into the Mexican Embassy,
the last place we expected to see you. How did that happen?"

"That," replied Biff with a smile, "was Chandra's idea."

"It looks like I picked the right United States," put in Chandra. He
turned to Biff and Kamuka. "You had chance number one and two. That gave
me chance number three. I hit it right."

"You sure did," Biff agreed. He turned to Mike. "But how do you come to
be in India? How do you know about all this?"

"You remember my uncle, the judge in Mexico City?"

"Of course."

"I came here with him on a visit, and we happened to meet your father.
My uncle can tell you about it, better than I can." Mike paused a
moment, then asked: "Do you have the ruby?"

For answer, Biff looked around and saw that he and his friends were
alone. Then he brought out the priceless packet, opened it, and
displayed the Light of the Lama. It took Mike's breath away. Never
before, perhaps, had the rare gem flashed more vividly, more
dramatically, than at that moment. That was all Mike needed to see.

"Put it away," he said. "We'll go over to my uncle's hotel and talk to
him."

Mike arranged for a cab, and they went to the hotel. There they met
Judge Felix Arista, a quiet man with a white beard and flowing hair that
gave him a very austere expression. But the kindly welcome that he gave
to Biff put Chandra and Kamuka completely at their ease.

Then Judge Arista went further. He spoke to Kamuka in Portuguese, then
to Chandra in Hindi, so fluently that both boys were quite overwhelmed.
Judge Arista also assured Biff that all was well with his father, the
last they had heard from him. Next, Judge Arista introduced a
middle-aged man of military bearing named Colonel Gorak, who evidently
held some key position with the government of India. Both were keenly
interested in the ruby when Biff produced it. Then Judge Arista turned
to the boys and said, "Tell us all that has happened."

Though Biff was eager to hear more about his father, he realized that
Judge Arista was following proper procedure--learning the facts so that
he and Colonel Gorak could weigh them. Biff related the events from the
time the  Northern Star  had docked in Calcutta. Judge Arista encouraged
Kamuka and Chandra to add their impressions. Chandra, especially, came
in for questioning regarding Jinnah Jad, Diwan Chand, and Barma Shah.

All three boys had much to say about Barma Shah and their adventures
with him, including how he had saved Biff's life during the tiger hunt
and had later responded to Biff's call when a thug had tried to steal
the ruby at the dak bungalow. Judge Arista finally turned to Colonel
Gorak and said:

"I am sure that we can trust these other boys as well as Biff. So I
think they should all hear what you have to tell him about Senor
Brewster."

Colonel Gorak bowed acknowledgment, then spoke to Biff in an even,
methodical tone.

"Your father came here to India to open some old gold mines," related
Colonel Gorak. "We were hopeful that investors would supply money to
work them. Among these mines were some that once belonged to the Rajah
of Bildapore, a small domain that was absorbed by a larger princely
state, though the Rajah's family still owned the mines until the Indian
government finally acquired them.

"When miners went down into the old shafts, they met with inexplicable
accidents. They claimed that the mines were haunted by ghosts and
demons, but we blamed it on outside factions. However, Mr. Brewster
found there was some basis for the superstition, as it was part of a
legend dating back five hundred years."

As Colonel Gorak paused, Kamuka exclaimed despite himself, "Five hundred
years! That is a long, long time!"

"Not in India," put in Chandra promptly. "Here it is very short."

"Quite true," agreed Colonel Gorak seriously. "Five hundred years ago,
the ruling Rajah of Bildapore received a magnificent ruby from the Grand
Lama of Chonsi, a lost city near the border of India and Tibet. The
saying was, 'While the Light of the Lama shines, so will the Star of the
Rajah'--and that proved true, for the mines showed steady profits and
were finally sold at a good price.

"Part of those profits were invested in gems which the Rajah's family
promised to give to the Chonsi Lama in return for the luck the ruby had
brought them. That was to be done if ever the Rajah's descendants
disposed of their holdings, which they finally did. But Mr. Brewster
learned that the gems had been hidden by loyal servants of the Rajah's
family, because outsiders were seeking them."

As Colonel Gorak paused, Biff asked, "By outsiders, do you mean the Kali
cult, sir?"

"For one, yes. For another, there is an international spy ring, run by
an adventurer named Bela Kron. We know little about him, except that he
will sell out to the highest bidder. Fortunately, Mr. Brewster located
the gems and brought them here to New Delhi."

"And as I was here," added Judge Arista, "he came to see me first. I
realized that this was an international matter, so I pressed it through
proper channels, and Colonel Gorak was assigned to the case. He has done
admirably with it."

Colonel Gorak shook his head to that.

"The real credit goes to Mr. Brewster," he insisted. "His story was
fantastic, but he had the gems to prove it and Judge Arista to vouch for
him. So we had him go to Ladakh in Eastern Kashmir, where he contacted
secret messengers from the Grand Lama. They took him to Chonsi where he
delivered the jewels with the compliments of our government. There was
just one problem. The Light of the Lama was not among the gems."

With that, Colonel Gorak gestured to the huge ruby that was glowing in
the sunlight as though its ruddy fire held all the secrets of the past
centuries. Never had its sparkle been more vivid. No one could wonder
why this was the most prized gem of all.

"We should have thought of that beforehand," declared Judge Arista. "But
we had not then seen the Light of the Lama." He studied the gem again,
then turned to Colonel Gorak. "I can understand why the Chonsi Lama
wants it," he said.

Colonel Gorak nodded. "So can I!" he agreed.

"Then the Lama is keeping my father in Chonsi?" asked Biff anxiously.
"Until he gets the ruby--like a ransom?"

"Not exactly," replied Colonel Gorak. "Your father is still in Chonsi,
yes--"

"Because they won't let him go?"

"No, no." It was Judge Arista who replied to Biff's anxious question. "I
am sure that he could leave at any time, but his mission would not have
been completed."

"He wants to deliver the ruby, too," explained Colonel Gorak, "and he
was sure that Barma Shah would be able to locate it, because they had
been working on it together, your father and Barma Shah."

That calmed Biff immediately. His mind flashed back to the tiger hunt,
when Barma Shah had delivered that perfect shot while the shikaris were
wondering what to do. Then he thought of the dak bungalow and the way
Barma Shah had rescued him there. Chandra must have realized what was in
Biff's mind.

"It is all right, Biff," Chandra said encouragingly. "Your father and
Barma Shah--they are a team."

Biff brightened as he turned to Judge Arista.

"You mean that I'm to go with Barma Shah?" the boy asked. "That he will
be there, too, when we deliver the ruby?"

"Exactly that," acknowledged Judge Arista. "We are counting on both of
you. Your father said that he had arranged for you to receive the ruby
and that Barma Shah would do the rest."

"I have arranged for our trip to Chonsi," added Colonel Gorak. "We can
notify Barma Shah to meet us in Srinagar, the capital of Kashmir. From
there, we will fly to Leh, the capital of Ladakh, where our equipment
has been ordered and is waiting for us."

Two thoughts swam through Biff's mind. In flying anywhere, he would like
to be in a plane piloted by his uncle, Charles Keene, who--to Biff's
thinking--was the greatest pilot ever. Next to his father, Uncle Charlie
was the man he would most like to see right now. The other thought
was--what was happening in Darjeeling? He felt concerned about his
mother and the twins. And he was worried about Li, who by now probably
was worried about him.

"Su Tio Carlos," said Judge Arista, as though he had read Biff's mind.
"Your Uncle Charles. We reached him in Burma and asked him to fly from
there to Darjeeling, so he would be ready to take off for Leh, to join
your party there. He is in Darjeeling now."

With that, Judge Arista picked up the telephone and handed it to Biff,
adding with a kindly smile, "We have put in a long distance call to your
family in Darjeeling. You can talk to them right now."




                                  XIV
                           The Valley of Doom


Biff was right about Li being worried. From the time he had arrived in
Darjeeling, after a ride in from the airport at Bagdogra, Li's worries
had begun and stayed with him. He was wondering constantly how much he
could tell the Brewsters if they asked him point-blank about Biff.

Biff's mother, Martha Brewster, had met Likake Mahenili in Hawaii at the
time Biff and Li had gone on their thrilling sea hunt together. The
Brewster twins, eleven-year-old Ted and Monica, had met Li, too, and
they were bubbling with delight at seeing him again.

Of course, they wanted to see their big brother, too, so they peppered
Li with so many rapid-fire questions about Biff that Li hadn't time to
answer any of them, which turned out for the best. In a slightly
reproving tone, Mrs. Brewster had suggested that the twins give their
guest a chance to speak for himself.

Thanks to that breather, as Biff would have termed it, Li was able to
state simply that Biff and Kamuka had gone directly to New Delhi in
response to a message from Mr. Brewster.

"We heard from New Delhi, too," Mrs. Brewster said. "Mr. Brewster's
company wired that he would be delayed and that Biff was being notified
what to do."

"I'll bet Dad has taken Biff to see some super-special gold mines!"
exclaimed Ted. "I wish he'd asked me along."

"That must be it," added Monica, "because Kamuka has been studying
mining in Brazil. I'd like to have gone, too."

"It's nice to hear you two agree on something," was Mrs. Brewster's
smiling comment, "but please notice that Likake isn't sulking because he
wasn't taken on the trip. That's the way a real grownup would act."

Li didn't mention that Biff had also received a wire from the Ajax
Mining Company. He merely said that he was sure they would hear from
Biff as soon as he reached New Delhi. As the days passed, the twins had
a wonderful time with Li. Among other things, they went on a picnic to
Tiger Hill, where they viewed Mt. Everest, the world's highest peak,
which towered more than 29,000 feet.

To Li, it was no more impressive than the 28,000-foot summit of
Kanchenjunga, which could be seen from Darjeeling. But he reserved
opinion on that and almost everything else, rather than start the twins
speculating on what their brother Biff might think about it. The next
step then would be--why hadn't they heard from Biff, a question Li
couldn't answer.

Li was relieved when Biff's wire came from Agra, because he honestly
didn't know why Biff had stopped there. But Li knew nothing yet of the
postcard, which was still on its way when Mrs. Brewster's brother,
Charles Keene, flew in from Burma and stated that he had been summoned
to Darjeeling by an official call from New Delhi.

With Charles Keene in the twin-engine Cessna was a burly, red-haired
mechanic known as Muscles, who hailed from the State of Kentucky and was
proud of it. The plane also brought a Burmese boy named Chuba, who had
guided Biff across the border into China, to rescue Biff's uncle when he
had been a prisoner there. Biff had detailed those adventures to Li, who
already regarded Chuba as an old friend.

So after a brief but hearty get-acquainted session, Li decided to
confide in Chuba. They had taken a stroll to look at Kanchenjunga, which
Li stated was the third highest mountain in the world. When Chuba asked
what two were bigger, Li told him: Everest and K 2--known as Mt.
Godwin-Austen--which was far north in Kashmir. Chuba shrugged at that.

"To me, Minya Konka looks bigger," he asserted. "That's the mountain
Biff and I saw in China. Perhaps that is because we got a look at it
from lower down."

"Kamuka would say that about the Andes," laughed Li. "To him, they would
look bigger." Seriously, he added, "That was while you were hunting for
Biff's Uncle Charlie?"

Chuba nodded.

"We may have to start a search for Biff's father," continued Li. "Biff
only heard from him indirectly."

Noting Chuba's keen interest, Li told him all that had happened in
Calcutta. He also mentioned his worry about whether or not he should
inform Biff's family as to those facts, or wait until he received direct
word from Biff. Chuba promptly solved that problem.

"You have trouble," Chuba told Li, "and Sahib Keene is trouble-shooter.
If you don't hear from Biff by tomorrow, I'll talk to Sahib Keene. Then
he will talk to you."

They didn't have to talk with Charles Keene the next day, for they
talked to Biff himself instead. That was when the long distance call
came from Judge Arista in New Delhi. Biff talked to his mother first,
explaining the situation briefly. Then Judge Arista came on the wire,
assuring Mrs. Brewster that all was probably well with her husband.

At the same time, Judge Arista stated that the trip to Chonsi was not
only urgent but dangerous. Colonel Gorak confirmed that when he spoke
both to Biff's mother and his Uncle Charlie. But all agreed that the
mission was imperative, and since it was necessary for Biff to accompany
the party, the other boys should have their choice in the matter, too.

Their choice was unanimous. They all said they would go. Li and Chuba
talked to Biff and told him that. Then Biff introduced Kamuka and
Chandra to Chuba; and finally, he had Mike Arista on the line, having
him meet both Li and Chuba. It was Uncle Charlie who ended that round
robin.

"Let me get my instructions," he insisted, taking the telephone from the
boys at his end, "before the Indian government has to dig another gold
mine to pay for this long distance call."

Uncle Charlie not only took instructions; he was filled in on all the
details of the Rajah's ruby, otherwise known as the Light of the Lama,
as well as Biff's adventures since leaving Calcutta. Uncle Charlie went
into all that for the benefit of the breathless listeners, who included
his nephew Ted and his niece Monica. Then:

"We're taking off today," Charles Keene stated, "by way of Katmandu, the
capital of Nepal. Then a big hop over to Leh. If bad weather delays us,
we can meet the party somewhere between Leh and the Tibetan border.
They've given me a list of locations where they will stop. So let's get
ready to go."

That was meant for Li and Chuba, but Ted and Monica thought that they
were included, for they jumped up and were rushing off to pack when
their Uncle Charlie called them back.

"No, small fry!" he said. "You're staying here!"

"Oh, no!" the twins wailed in one voice. "We both voted to go!"

"That vote was for teenagers only," returned Uncle Charlie. "Somebody
has to stay here and look after your mother. Besides, the Cessna only
carries five passengers and we have four already: Li, Chuba, Muscles,
and myself."

"But if we're small fry," argued Monica, "the two of us would only count
as one--"

"Or maybe you don't want girls along," interrupted Ted, "so in that case
you can take just me."

Monica turned on Ted at that and was pounding him to show how tough her
fists could really be, when Uncle Charlie moved in and separated them as
he said:

"Break it up! Muscles is so big he counts for two, so that makes five
passengers already. Sorry, no more room!"

When they reached the airfield, Muscles had the plane all ready for the
flight. The massive mechanic was standing guard and glaring suspiciously
at any workers who came near the plane.

"That is Muscles' way," Charles Keene said approvingly. "With an
international spy ring haunting an old gold mine and thugs trying to
steal a ruby as a gift for the goddess Kali, almost anything could
happen to any of us, anywhere!"

Then, with Charles Keene at the controls, the plane was climbing from
the runway in the direction of the snow-capped Himalayas, where dozens
of magnificent peaks seemed to grow into sight, to match huge
Kanchenjunga and even more distant Everest.

The higher the plane rose, the more the mountains loomed above it.
Avoiding those vast peaks, Charles Keene worked the plane above valleys
and passes that formed openings in the massive barrier. The ranges rose
skyward like great steps until the plane reached the fertile Katmandu
Valley near the center of Nepal, a great green oasis in a vast desert of
rocky crags and the perpetual snow of the surrounding Himalayas.

Katmandu was a colorful city of temples, pagodas, and palaces that rose
from among lesser buildings and great open squares. The altitude was a
little more than four thousand feet, and Charles Keene made a landing at
the airfield to check on weather reports, while Muscles gave the plane
another going over. From there, the plane took off westward, passing
south of the great twin peaks of Annapurna and Dhaulagiri, gigantic
sentinels twenty miles apart, with a deep valley tapering down to a
river gorge between their five-mile summits.

"It's too soon to head north," decided Charles Keene, "even though that
gap does look inviting. It would take us into Tibet, and we might have
problems picking a course over into Kashmir. We'll do better this way."

This way took them out of Nepal, and soon they were flying over India
again. There, Biff's uncle finally swung to the north, and again the
Himalayas loomed ahead. Then they were knifing through fleecy clouds at
two hundred and fifty miles an hour, straight toward the disputed
Tibetan border.

"This course will bring us into Leh," Charles Keene declared, as the
clouds began to thicken, "but we'd better get more altitude."

A gigantic mass of solid, snowy white rose through a rift in the clouds.
As the plane skimmed over it, they all drew a relieved breath.

"We nearly scraped frosting off cake," Chuba said.

Charles Keene smiled, but a bit grimly, as he studied his chart again.
Then:

"If that was Nanda Devi," he declared, "we are away off course." He
turned to Muscles. "Is the altimeter right?" he asked.

"It was when I checked it last."

"Then we aren't climbing as we should."

The plane droned on, in and out of cloud banks, above valleys filled
with mist. Fortunately, no more mountains rose into their path, but
clouds were thickening up ahead and the plane was not responding
properly.

"We're almost over the northern range," Uncle Charlie said. "But
tackling those cloud banks would be risky, and turning back would be
worse. We'll do better making a forced landing in one of those forgotten
valleys."

"Provided the visibility is good enough at landing level," put in
Muscles. "We may encounter ground fog."

"That's the chance we take," Uncle Charlie conceded. "But I don't think
it has settled deeply yet."

Coolly, Charles Keene zoomed over two low-lying mountain ranges, then
banked his plane toward a wide space where a trace of green showed deep
beneath the gathering mist. The white blanket thickened as he approached
it, and the plane, as it descended, was swallowed completely in those
swirling folds. The roar of the motor was muffled; then it, too, faded
entirely.

Silence reigned again above the mist-filled valleys of the Himalayas,
the strange, mysterious stillness that the mightiest of mountains had
known since the dawn of time.




                                   XV
                           The Caravan Halts


"So this is Srinagar!"

Biff Brewster spoke from the bow of a narrow, rakish craft known as a
 shikara , as two turbaned oarsmen propelled it along the River Jhelum
through the heart of Kashmir's capital city. Between Biff and the stern,
where both paddlers were seated, was a large canopy mounted on
ornamental poles. Reclining beneath it were Chandra, Kamuka, and Mike
Arista.

The front of the canopy bore the boat's name,  Happy Daze , for these
gondolas of the Himalayan Venice were particularly popular with American
visitors. As they swept along beneath the ancient wooden bridges that
spanned the Jhelum, the boys waved to passengers in passing shikaras
with signs bearing such varied titles as  Hot Dog ,  The Big Mo , and
 Chattanooga Choo Choo .

Picturesque buildings flanked both sides of the waterway, and beneath
their balconies were native craft called  dungas , on which whole
families lived. Far more pretentious were the lavish houseboats occupied
by Europeans and Americans. These were more in evidence after the
shikara brought them to the Dal Gate, the outlet for Dal Lake.

From there, they followed more canals to the lake itself, where they
wove among actual floating gardens to the five-mile stretch of open
water beyond. Sunset was tingeing Dal Lake with a deep crimson that
purpled the blue lake and its surrounding foliage against the
magnificent backdrop of the snow-clad Himalayas.

"Fine sunset," Kamuka appraised it. "Much better than on the Hooghly."

"And all we need," commented Biff, studying the mirrored sunset in the
placid water, "is for a bore to come roaring down the lake. This water
buggy would really wind up in a happy daze."

Even that imaginary menace was ended when they reached their
destination, a houseboat named  Pride of the Deodars . This was a stout
ship in its own right, measuring 120 feet from "stem to stern" as Biff
put it, with a width or beam of 16 feet. Before taking off from New
Delhi, Colonel Gorak had engaged the  Pride of the Deodars  for their
overnight stay in Srinagar and had come directly here while the boys
were taking their river trip.

Smilingly, the colonel showed them through an actual floating mansion,
for the  Pride , as the boys promptly called it, had a huge living room
and a sizable dining room, each with a fireplace, plus three bedrooms
with private baths. A native chef served a tasty dinner from the ample
kitchen. After the meal, the boys went to the living room. They were
seated in front of the fireplace, when a light glimmered cautiously from
the water close by, and they heard a shikara scrape alongside the
 Pride .

"Barma Shah," stated Colonel Gorak. "I contacted him at the address in
Simla." Gorak turned to Biff. "I have never met him, so you can
introduce us."

             [Illustration: Boat on river, passing a town]

When Barma Shah entered, he was wearing his beret and tinted glasses, as
excellent a disguise as ever, for when he removed them, his complexion
changed in color and his face seemed to broaden, probably because of his
widespread ears. His high forehead and short-clipped hair were
deceptive, too, for the beret had hidden them well. Colonel Gorak nodded
his approval.

"I can understand why you have managed to stay undercover," Gorak
declared. "I have dozens of reports from men who have contacted you at
one time or another"--the colonel gestured to an attache case on the
table--"but not one could give more than a vague description of you."

"Unfortunately, most of those who knew me best are gone," returned Barma
Shah, in a regretful tone. "They were marked for death, as I have been."

"I know that," nodded Colonel Gorak. "All of you were in constant danger
from all sides when you tried to quell those riots between rival
factions, especially in Calcutta."

"The danger still is great," declared Barma Shah, "and that is why I
show myself so seldom. During the past year or more, only two men really
met me face to face, so far as learning my identity. One was Diwan
Chand; the other, Thomas Brewster. Recently, of course"--he gestured
toward Biff and his companions--"I told these boys who I was, because
once I was clear of Calcutta, I felt the need for secrecy was gone. So
now"--Barma Shah finished with a bow--"we meet at last, Colonel Gorak."

"And the meeting is a timely one," returned Gorak, "because you are the
man who can help us most."

The colonel spread a large map of Kashmir on the table, ran his finger
from Srinagar eastward to Leh, the principal city of Ladakh. Then he
inched it, zig-zag fashion, toward the boundary between India and Tibet,
which was marked with a dotted line, indicating its uncertainty.

"Charles Keene will meet you in Leh," explained Colonel Gorak, "or at
one of your later stopping points. When you reach the vicinity of
Chonsi--wherever it may be--you will be contacted and guided to that
lost city."

Barma Shah looked up, slightly puzzled. "You aren't coming with us,
Colonel Gorak?" he asked.

"No. This is not a military mission, nor even an official expedition.
Mr. Brewster went there on his own and personally promised to deliver
the Rajah's ruby to the Chonsi Lama, once the gem was found. Since the
descendants of the Rajah were supposed to deliver it to the successor of
the Lama, tradition demands that Mr. Brewster's promise be fulfilled by
his son.

"Again, in keeping with tradition, the boy should be accompanied by
someone close of kin, so we have chosen his Uncle Charles for that
purpose. And since you, Barma Shah, played the vital part in recovering
the lost ruby, you are entitled to go along as its temporary guardian."

As Colonel Gorak finished, Barma Shah smiled.

"You should have picked Diwan Chand for my job," he said, "but as for
going along, I don't think Diwan Chand would have. So I guess I'll have
to do."

"You will do very well. Any more questions?"

"Just one, Colonel. What about the Chonsi Lama? Have you any reports on
him?"

"Nearly twenty years ago," stated Colonel Gorak, "the Chonsi Lama
visited Leh and received a tremendous ovation. He was then a man in his
early thirties and impressed all who met him with his great vigor and
his keen mind. In the years since, the Chonsi Lama has preserved the
balance of the border. He has refused to listen to the demands of
dictators who have tried to curb his power. They are unable to oust him
because they cannot find him."

"And all the while his influence has increased?" Barma Shah inquired.

"Yes. Today, the Chonsi Lama is regarded as one of the wisest men in the
East and, without a doubt, the most mysterious. No one has seen him
since that time in Leh, but he has been heard from often, and his
well-weighed decisions have increased his fame. Now in his early
fifties, he is probably at the peak of his career--that is, if Lamas
have careers. When one dies, his spirit is supposed to be reincarnated
in an infant born at that same time, who then continues on as a Living
Buddha."

Biff and the other boys wanted to hear more on that intriguing subject,
but Barma Shah asked:

"Will anyone block us between Leh and Chonsi?"

"One man will if he can," returned Gorak grimly. "That is Bela Kron, who
heads the international spy ring. Have you ever run across him here in
India?"

"No, but I would like to." Barma Shah gritted his teeth and clenched his
fists. "I would repay him in kind for the way he tortured some of my
friends."

"I know." Colonel Gorak tapped the attache case significantly. "The
reports are all in here. But would you recognize Bela Kron if you saw
him?"

"No, because I could not possibly have met him. Brewster may have,
around those mines in Bildapore, but Bela Kron would have been very
wary, any time he came to Calcutta."

That ended the conference for the evening. Tingling with excitement, the
boys found it difficult to go to sleep, even in the luxurious houseboat.
When they finally did drop off, the night seemed very short indeed, for
Colonel Gorak woke them early for their morning flight to Leh.

The five-hundred-mile trip was interesting, for below, the boys saw
samples of the rugged terrain that they would have to cover later on.
The nearest thing to a road was a crude trail that led through mountain
passes twelve thousand feet in altitude, where the plane flew low
between the hemming Himalaya ranges. There were occasional squatty
villages and Buddhist monasteries perched high upon the mountainsides.
These gave an idea of what Chonsi would be like if ever they found the
place.

The immediate objective was Leh, and it proved interesting when they
landed there. Though a town of only a few thousand inhabitants, its
bazaars showed a mingling of many races including tribes in outlandish
costumes, for this was the trade center where goods came in from Tibet
by caravan. Biff and his companions found the equipment ready and the
arrangements all made for their trek to the border. But Charles Keene
and his Cessna had not yet arrived.

For two full days they waited, with the strain continually increasing.
The only news was a roundabout report from Katmandu, stating that the
Cessna had put down there and then resumed its flight, on the very day
that Biff and his companions had flown from New Delhi up to Srinagar. On
the third day, Colonel Gorak, who had come along this far, decided that
the caravan must start. Barma Shah agreed.

"There is still a chance that your uncle's plane made a safe landing,"
Gorak told Biff. "But by now he will suppose that you have left Leh, so
there is no need of staying here."

"In fact, it would be a mistake," declared Barma Shah, "for your uncle
has our schedule and may be expecting us at one of the stopping posts.
We are already a day late, but the first two stages are short, so we can
make them in a single day."

Paced by plodding, heavily laden yaks, they made the required distance
by nightfall. Their course was toward the glistening mountains to the
south, but the whiteness that worried Biff was not the snow upon the
Himalayan summits. The thick clouds surrounding the lower levels were
the menace. They filled the passes and the valleys beyond, the only
places where the plane could have made a landing.

By morning the clouds were heavier still, and Barma Shah was anxious to
make an early start because of the threatening snow. Biff pleaded with
him to wait, so they did for another hour, studying the increasing snow
clouds.

"It's no use," Barma Shah decided finally. "We can hardly see the slopes
now. Anyone coming through those passes would have to turn back."

Biff nodded hopelessly. But as he took one last look through a pair of
field glasses, he was sure he detected motion in the distant haze. Then,
against the snowy background, he saw three figures. One paused as they
struggled forward and waved his arms in a characteristic gesture.

Excitedly, Biff exclaimed, "Uncle Charlie!"




                                  XVI
                           The Bamboo Bridge


Biff and the three boys with him started forward on the run to meet
Charles Keene and his companions. They soon saw that one of the pair was
Li, and since the other was about his size, it only took one guess for
Biff to name him: "Chuba!" But by the time the two groups met, Biff had
another name in mind as well. The first words he put were:

"Where's Muscles? Wasn't he along with you?"

"Muscles is all right," Charles Keene assured him. "We are, too, but we
had to speed up our pace the last few miles, otherwise we wouldn't have
made it. When I get a cup of hot coffee, I'll tell you all about it."

Li and Chuba were just too winded to talk at all. When they reached the
caravan, Barma Shah decided to delay the start until they had rested.
That gave Charles Keene time to tell their story. He related how clouds
had enveloped their plane high in the Himalayas.

"Rather than hit a mountain," he said, "we chanced a landing in a
valley. Fortunately it was a deep one, and the fog hadn't fully settled.
All of a sudden, green fields smacked right up at us. We banged up the
plane some, but not too badly. What happened next was the odd part."

Charles Keene paused to drink half his cup of coffee in one long,
grateful swallow. Meanwhile, Li and Chuba couldn't wait to pick the
story up from there.

"A lot of natives wearing goat skins came rushing up to the plane,"
declared Li. "We thought they were going to mob us."

"They were shouting ' Yeti! Yeti! ' over and over," put in Chuba, "but
before we could find out what they meant, Muscles went after them. You
should have seen them run."

Charles Keene laid aside his empty cup.

"Later, they came creeping back," he said, "and we made friends with
them. So we didn't ask what they meant by shouting--"

He stopped suddenly, as Barma Shah made frantic gestures for silence. A
Ladakhi porter was standing by, staring with dark, narrowed eyes. Barma
Shah told the man to bring some more hot coffee. Then, when he was gone,
Barma Shah confided:

"Don't mention the word Yeti to these people. You have heard of the
giant ape-man of the Himalayas, haven't you? The creature they call the
Abominable Snowman? That's their name for it: Yeti--"

"I remember now!" exclaimed Charles Keene. "I was sure I'd heard the
word before. But I thought that yarn was spiked long ago."

"Not in these mountains," rejoined Barma Shah. "Here in Ladakh, as well
as Kashmir, Sikkim, Bhutan, Nepal, Tibet, and even as far away as
Yarkand, the Yeti is very real. The natives will run away if they even
think such a creature is around."

"And we thought they meant the plane!" exclaimed Li.

"Yes, because we came down from the sky like a big bird," added Chuba.
"Bigger than they ever saw before."

"They may have blamed the Yeti for bringing such a monster," commented
Barma Shah. "But here comes the porter with the coffee. So let us avoid
the word from now on."

"But where is Muscles?" queried Biff.

"Back in the valley, looking after the plane," explained his uncle.
"Some of the tribesmen-- Sherpas  they call themselves--guided us over
to the mountain pass and then returned to their valley. We miscalculated
slightly or we would have been here sooner."

Despite the delay, the caravan completed its next stage ahead of the
impending snowstorm. The patient yaks, creatures that resemble both the
ox and the American buffalo, with long hair like the fleece of a sheep,
responded to continued prodding as though they recognized the need for
hurry. Tikse, the chief porter and head yak driver, had a comment on
that score.

"Listen and you hear yak grunt," he told the boys. "That means two
things."

"And what are those?" asked Biff.

"One thing, yak like what happen, yes. Other thing, yak do not like what
happen, no."

"And how," queried Mike, "do you tell the grunts apart?"

"No way to tell," replied Tikse. "Yak grunt the same exactly, whichever
way he feel. But it is important just the same."

"And what makes it so important," demanded Li, "if you don't know the
difference?"

"You do know the difference," returned Tikse. "When yak give grunt, he
feel one way or other, maybe both. When yak do not give grunt, yak do
not care."

"But why," asked Chuba, "should yaks feel both good and bad?"

"These yaks feel good," explained Tikse, "because they know they get to
shelter ahead of snow. They feel bad because we make them hurry. So they
say both things with one grunt. Simple."

It looked simple indeed when they reached the day's goal, a small patch
of grazing ground where dried grass spread to the foot of rocky slopes.
There were stone huts for the members of the party and similar shelters
for the yaks. The reason stones had been used in the construction was
because there were plenty of them lying around; and nothing else. The
roofs of the buildings were made of rough boards, covered with thatched
leaves. They weren't nailed down because they didn't have to be. The
builders had simply placed big stones on the roofs.

The boys turned in early and slept late, snug in their sleeping bags and
shoulder to shoulder in their huts. In the morning it took three of them
to ram the door open, the snow was so deep. But the yaks were up, ready
and grunting--some because they liked snow; others because they hated
it.

The yaks pulled the party through. They bulldozed their way through the
snow, chest deep, clearing it like living snowplows, so that the people
had no difficulty following them. Oddly, as the trail climbed higher, it
led to barren ground, totally free from snow. Apparently, the storm
clouds hadn't managed to gain that altitude.

Early that afternoon, the party halted at a roaring mountain stream and
stared at the remnants of a crude wooden bridge that had been washed
away by the flood. Sadly, Tikse petted one yak after another, while the
porters relieved the stolid beasts of their burdens. The boys watched
Tikse turn the yaks over to two other Ladakhis, who promptly drove them
off along the trail. Barma Shah explained the situation.

"We'll have to make a footbridge," he stated, "before the water rises
too high. So Tikse is sending the yaks on to another shelter. From now
on, the porters will carry our packs."

All the while, Biff could hear a chopping sound from a short way up the
narrow, turbulent stream. There was a sudden crash, and a tree came
toppling down to bridge the raging torrent. Chandra appeared from the
brush, carrying a heavy hand-axe.

"Bridge already set," reported Chandra. "It just needs one thing more--"

[Illustration:  A dozen steps and Biff was over ]

"It needs much more." The interruption came from a squatty, broadly
built porter named Hurdu, as he tested the tree with a clumsy foot. "We
need ten more trees like this."

"We need a rail for the bridge," declared Chandra calmly. "Can somebody
bring me a rope?"

Biff supplied a rope, and Chandra hitched one end around a tree. Like a
monkey, he scrambled across the fallen tree, carrying the free end of
the rope with him. A single slip and Chandra would have gone into the
flood, which probably would have pleased Hurdu, who was watching
intently. But Chandra was across in no time and promptly hitched the
rope to a tree on the opposite bank, drawing it taut as he did.

"Now, walk across log bridge," called Chandra, "and hold on to rope
rail."

Biff shouldered a pack and followed instructions, keeping his eyes fixed
straight ahead, not on the furious current, which would have distracted
him. With one hand on the rope, it was simple to steady himself while he
advanced one foot, then the other. A dozen steps and he was over. Now
the other boys were following his example. That was all the porters
needed. They hoisted their full burdens, eighty pounds to a man, and
stalked across Chandra's simple bridge in regular procession.

Charles Keene and Barma Shah followed, as did Tikse and Hurdu, though
the last two exchanged glares before they started and after they had
crossed. Now that the yaks had gone their way, a dispute appeared to be
in the making as to who was the chief guide of the party. Both Tikse and
Hurdu wanted that honor.

The narrow path made a steep ascent up the side of a high cliff, and
before the porters were out of sight of Chandra's crude bridge, they saw
the surging stream carry it away. Time had been the all-important
factor, where that crossing was concerned. But an hour later, the party
came to something much more formidable.

The trail swung along the fringe of a tremendous, steep-walled gorge a
thousand feet in depth and a hundred or more across. Down below, a river
thundered like a hungry dragon, ready to devour any human prey. Chandra
was pleased to see that this chasm was already bridged, for he could
have done nothing with his hand-axe.

The bridge was of a suspension type, so crude and flimsy of construction
that it seemed to hover in midair. Yet it evidently was strong enough,
for Barma Shah, who was up in front, started across without hesitation.
Tikse and Hurdu were close behind him, followed by the long procession
of porters with their heavy packs. As Biff paused to look for the other
boys, he found Chuba close beside him. As usual, Chuba had a saying to
fit the situation.

"Tikse and Hurdu agree on something at last," declared Chuba. "Wise man
never argue when it prove another man right."

"You've got something there," laughed Biff, as he watched Tikse and
Hurdu practically crowd each other across the bridge. "Neither could
afford to hesitate, or he'd be admitting that the other was boss."

"From the look of that bridge," observed Li, "both were lucky to get
across. The same goes for us--if we make it."

Considering that the bridge's cables were composed of twisted strands of
bamboo and rattan, with hanging vines dangling like ropes to support the
roadway, Li had a point. But the other boys didn't agree. They had seen
and crossed many such primitive bridges: Chuba in Burma, Chandra in
India, Kamuka in Brazil, and Mike in Mexico. Though the porters crossed
at a safe distance apart, they didn't begin to tax the bridge to its
capacity.

That was proven when the boys reached the bridge and saw that its
runway, fashioned from strips of bamboo laid crosswise, was wide enough
to drive a yak across. As the boys crossed the bridge two abreast, Biff
spoke to Chandra, who was beside him.

"Now I see why Hurdu wanted to chop down more trees back at the little
stream. We could have brought the yaks along. Why wasn't Tikse in favor
of that?"

"I saw Tikse pet the yaks and say good-by," returned Chandra. "He made
grunts, like yak, saying he was both glad and sorry. Sorry because yaks
had to go. Glad because it gave jobs to porters instead."

"You're right!" exclaimed Biff. "Colonel Gorak said the bearers were not
to receive full pay until they actually took over."

The tremendous roar of water echoed up from the steep-walled gorge,
drowning further conversation until the boys were across. It might have
been imagination, but Biff felt that the bridge quivered as he left it,
so he turned to look back while Chandra, still beside him, was laying
his pack on solid ground. They had come between a pair of upright posts
that served as tower for the bridge; now they were close by the big
stakes to which the rope cables were moored. There, porters were
stacking their packs by dozens and sitting down to rest.

There were still several porters on the bridge, all well spaced. Behind
them came Li and Chuba, for those two boys had stayed back to wait for
Charles Keene, who was bringing up the rear. Biff's uncle had taken on
that duty to "keep the parade moving" as he styled it, which meant that
he had been encouraging straggling porters in his own cheery, breezy
way.

Li and Chuba were past the halfway mark and Uncle Charlie was almost
there when Biff saw the swaying bridge give a sudden shudder. Biff
thought for an instant that it was an earth tremor. Then he noticed that
the porters near him were chatting, quite unconcerned. Biff gave a
warning shout, too late.

With a snap like a rifle report, the rope parted from the stake at
Biff's right. With it, the entire cable slipped on that side of the
bridge, tilting the runway downward. In a single second, Charles Keene,
Li, Chuba, and a pair of porters were sprawling on the slippery bamboo
slats, which had suddenly become a chute to certain doom in the abyss
below!




                                  XVII
                      The Monster of the Mountains


In the harrowing moments that followed, Biff saw two shapes go
slithering off the slanted bridge and continue spinning, tumbling in
huddled helpless fashion into the gaping jaws of the roaring gorge. Biff
shut his eyes as they disappeared, and his mind flashed back to those
tiny figures that he had seen against the snowy background of the
mountain pass.

Uncle Charlie, Li, and Chuba. The boys were two of a size, like those
two forms that had just plunged from the collapsing bridge. So they must
be Li and Chuba--or else the two porters. But no, not the porters; those
somersaulting shapes weren't big enough. Biff tightened his fists grimly
as he opened his eyes for one last hopeless look.

Biff was right: It wasn't the porters.

At the first warning quiver of the bridge, they had dropped their heavy
burdens and made a desperate dive for safety. Nearly across, first one,
then the other, had managed to grab the high edge of the canted runway
and scramble to the ground beyond. But as Biff looked past them, his
eyes opened really wide.

It wasn't Li or Chuba either!

Both boys were still there, near the center of the bridge, with Uncle
Charlie!

The moment the bridge had tilted one way and they had felt themselves
sliding with it, all three had made a frantic grab in the other
direction. Instinctively, they had gripped the upper side and the
slender grass ropes that supported it. They were still hanging on.

What Biff had seen tumble into the gorge were the bulky packs that the
porters had flung aside. Those bulging burdens, when falling, had looked
exactly like a pair of huddled humans. Now, Uncle Charlie and the two
boys were lightening weight by letting their own packs follow the path
of the others.

That still didn't guarantee them safety. The whole weight of the bridge
was now swaying on a single rope cable. Sooner or later it was sure to
snap; then all hope of rescue would be gone. Now, chunks of the runway
were breaking loose from the dangling ropes, which no longer bore their
proportionate shares of the weight. That produced a new dilemma.

It was impossible for Uncle Charlie, Li, and Chuba to work their way
along that upper edge, because of the gaps. They would have to reach the
one remaining cable, climb it to the top of the tower post and come down
to the ground. Li and Chuba might manage it; but not Charles Keene, with
all his weight.

Chandra had the answer. He had brought along the rope from his log
bridge. He tossed one end to Biff, saying, "Hang on tight!" Then,
carrying the other end, Chandra scrambled up the lone cable and
practically slid from the post top out to where Li and Chuba clung.
There, Chandra, Li, and Chuba tied their rope end to the cable; while
Biff, Mike, and Kamuka hauled the rope taut and hitched the other end
around the tower post.

That filled the gaps along the level route to safety. Chandra went
first, pausing to tie dangling liana strands to the new rope to keep it
from sagging. Li and Chuba followed, stopping to wait for Charles Keene,
even when he twisted one arm in the rope and waved them on with his
other hand. If Biff's uncle tired, they hoped to help him; but what
Uncle Charlie lacked in agility, he made up for in endurance.

After minutes that proved long and nerve-racking for Biff and his
watching companions, the other boys reached solid ground with Charles
Keene right behind them. A moment later, Biff and the rest were swarming
around Uncle Charlie and congratulating him, while Barma Shah spoke
approvingly.

"That was very good, indeed. And just in time, too. The wind is getting
brisker from the gorge. What is left of the bridge will soon be gone."

At a combined order from Tikse and Hurdu, the bearers gathered their
packs. Then they were on their way again. As they veered away from the
gorge, Biff took a last look back. The remains of the bridge were
swinging like a hammock now, its single strand due to snap at any
moment.

Chandra, who was walking beside Biff, touched his arm. "The rope, Biff,"
he said in a low voice. "Somebody cut it!"

Biff stared at him. "Are you sure?" he gasped. When Chandra nodded, Biff
said soberly, "Then that means there's an enemy right in our own party."

That evening, when they pitched their tents in the shelter of some trees
on the rim of a rugged valley, Charles Keene remarked:

"Losing a few packs didn't hurt us, because we were short on porters
anyway."

"Short on porters?" inquired Barma Shah. "How?"

"We had sixty yesterday morning, but there were only fifty-four when I
counted them as they crossed the log bridge. That's why I brought up the
rear, to see that no more of them skipped."

That news brought a grim expression to Barma Shah's face. In response,
he said:

"They may have heard our talk of Yeti. What is more, I saw some big
tracks in the snow before we broke camp yesterday. I obliterated them,
but perhaps some of the porters saw them first."

That night it snowed again, though only lightly. In the morning, Biff
awoke to hear the camp babbling with excitement. He crawled from his
sleeping bag and emerged from the tent, where he promptly ran into
Chandra, who told him:

"Yeti tracks again. Hurdu found them on the hill."

Biff joined Charles Keene and Barma Shah up near some barren rocks. The
tracks were much larger than a man's foot, but clumsy and roughly
formed. They led in from the rocks, then back again, as though some
creature had come down from the craggy hill toward the camp, only to
return to its lair.

Some of the Ladakhi bearers were gabbing among themselves and repeating,
"Yeti--Yeti," much too often, as they walked along beside the big
footprints and compared them with their own smaller tracks. Back at
camp, Barma Shah conferred with Tikse, who gave the porters a pep-talk
in a mixture of Hindi and Ladakhi. They responded in grunts of
half-agreement as they gathered up their packs.

"Those sound like yak grunts," declared Chuba. "Good and bad. They don't
want to go along, but anyway, they go."

"That is right," stated Chandra, who had caught the meaning of the
speech. "Tikse says they have to go along because they can't go back, as
there is no bridge across the gorge."

That night, the porters pitched their tents much closer together when
they camped. There was another light snow, and in the morning Hurdu
found new Yeti tracks beside a rocky slope nearby. Charles Keene was
frankly skeptical about them.

"Anybody could have made them with a piece of brushwood," Biff's uncle
declared, "or in half a dozen other ways. But I guess Tikse can't
convince his crowd of that."

"Tikse thinks they are Yeti tracks himself," returned Barma Shah. "That
is the real trouble."

All day the Ladakhi porters kept watching the barren ground above the
tree line, for that was the high altitude at which the Yeti supposedly
dwelled. They quickened their pace and reached the next campsite well
before dusk. There, trouble seemed over, for this was a valley where two
trails crossed, and already a nomadic tribe was camped there. They
greeted the party from Leh and gladly sold them fresh provisions.

That night, there was music and mirth around the campfires. The morning
dawned crisp but pleasant, for there was no sign of any snow. Nor was
there any sign of Tikse and his Ladakhi porters. They had pulled out at
dawn, taking the other trail the long way back to Leh, leaving only
Hurdu and a dozen others who were not Ladakhi.

That automatically promoted Hurdu to chief guide, and when he suggested
hiring some of the nomad tribesmen as porters, Barma Shah favored the
idea, but asked for approval from Charles Keene, as joint leader of the
expedition. Biff's uncle was all for Hurdu's suggestion.

"They look to me like Sherpas," he declared. "Like those friendly chaps
we met in the valley where we landed our plane."

"They are not Sherpas," put in Chuba politely. "I listen to their talk,
Sahib Keene. They call themselves  Changpas . They do not come from the
south, but from the north."

"That means that they are not Nepalese," stated Barma Shah, "but
Tibetans. They are accustomed to these high altitudes perhaps better
than those who live in Ladakh or Nepal. What is more"--he lowered his
voice--"they have probably heard less about the Yeti."

"Then let's hire them quickly," returned Charles Keene, with a knowing
smile, "before they can change their minds."

Hurdu hired the Changpa bearers, and the march was resumed. But the
nomads, though sturdier than the old crew from Leh, lacked their
steady-going qualities. They paused frequently to rest and eat, even
hinting that they might drop their packs and quit. So Barma Shah told
Hurdu to cut the day's trek short as soon as they reached a suitable
campsite.

That went on for three days, which pleased Biff and the other boys, as
it gave them more time to roam at large. They had found little to talk
about with the porters from Leh, but this Changpa crew were mostly
hunters. They had brought throwing spears as well as bows and arrows,
and at every halt, they let the boys try the weapons.

On the fourth morning, Biff awoke to find more snow on the ground.
Nobody else was up, for the carefree Changpas were late risers. Glancing
off beyond the camp, Biff saw something that riveted him. Going back
into the tent, Biff wakened the nearest boy, who happened to be Chandra.
Motioning for silence, Biff whispered: "Yeti tracks! Come on!"

Chandra came, bringing his trusty hand-axe. Biff nodded approval and
promptly "borrowed" a throwing spear that was standing outside a Changpa
tent. He then led Chandra to the first of the marks that he had noticed
in the snow. They looked like footprints and big ones, half the size of
snowshoe tracks. Breathless, Chandra gestured back toward the camp.

"Maybe we better call others?"

"Not yet," returned Biff. "Let's see where these lead. Then we can plan
ahead, before everybody gets excited."

The tracks led up the slope, but instead of ending there, they followed
a snow-covered ledge. Beyond that was a huge, chunky rock, and as Biff
glanced in that direction, he saw a great tawny figure with a shock of
thick, black hair, as it bounded from cover.

Then it was gone, among another cluster of rocks. Biff was after it,
beckoning Chandra along, and they saw the thing again, as it sprang to
another snowy ledge. There it dropped to all fours, and by the time the
boys reached the ledge, it was gone again, but its footprints showed in
the patchy snow. The two boys passed a slight turn where the rocks rose
like jagged steps, tufted with snow. As Chandra started in that
direction, Biff noticed an arched gap in the jagged wall that rose
beside the ledge itself.

Biff turned and called, "Wait, Chandra. There's a cave here--maybe
that's where he went--"

Chandra looked back, and his face froze with horror. He was too startled
even to shout a warning, but the look in his eyes, which were staring
straight past Biff, told enough. Instinctively, Biff wheeled about, then
recoiled as he turned his eyes upward.

From the cleft in the rocky wall loomed a tremendous hulk of reddish
brown. Tiny eyes were glaring above wide-open, long-toothed jaws, while
massive, sharp-clawed paws clamped downward, inward, toward the boy's
dodging form.

Biff Brewster was all but in the grip of a gigantic Tibetan bear, one of
the most dangerous creatures that roved those rocky heights!




                                 XVIII
                          The Frozen Waterfall


All that saved Biff at that moment was the Changpa spear that he had
snatched from outside a tent. He had the weapon in his hand, and as he
dodged, he jabbed the spear point at the creature from the cave. It was
puny compared to the bear's bulk, but it bothered the big beast.
Clumsily, the bear batted aside the jabs, and that diverted its action.

Biff now had time to dive away. He flung the spear as he went, but it
flew wide. Hardly had it clattered on the rocks before another weapon
whizzed past the bear's head: Chandra's hand-axe. Like Biff, Chandra
timed his throw too late. The bear was already dropping on all fours,
about to lope after Biff. Biff saw that in a glance and began thinking
fast.

Bears, though clumsy, could move swiftly and would attack if angered,
which this one evidently was. Tibetan bears were death on yaks and
sheep; that Biff had also heard. Maybe they'd keep coming after them on
ledges like this, so there was no use acting like a sheep or a yak. Biff
halted suddenly and flattened himself against the rocky wall, ready to
reverse direction if the bear came bounding past.

On the contrary, if it reared, Biff intended to be off again; and while
waiting that moment of decision, he took a quick look down toward the
campsite. That proved smart indeed. Instead of the area being all but
deserted, with everyone asleep, it literally teemed with action. Uncle
Charlie and Barma Shah were coming up the slope armed with rifles and
followed by half a dozen Changpa tribesmen, all with bows and arrows.

All the other boys were coming, too, apparently shouting as loudly as
they could, but the wind was against them, which was why Biff hadn't
heard them. They were gesturing, though, and that he understood. Wildly,
all were waving for him to keep going along the ledge. That Biff would
have done anyway, for just now, the bear had arrived and was rearing for
another lunge. So Biff took off again, hoping that the ledge would lead
somewhere.

That wasn't necessary. From behind him came the  ping  of bullets as
they hit the ledge, followed by the boom of the actual gunshots from
below. Biff darted another quick look and saw arrows coming down from
the sky, with the rearing bear as their target. The bear hadn't budged
from its last position, except to set itself up for the marksmen.
Suddenly bristling with arrows, it toppled, rolled sideways, and fell
from sight over the ledge.

Everybody took credit for the kill, which they had a right to do. Uncle
Charlie had fired half a dozen shots and was sure that at least two had
landed. Barma Shah quietly showed Biff his rifle, which still had a
special gadget fitted above the barrel.

"This time," Barma Shah confided, "it  was  a telescopic sight. I only
use the flashlight beam at night."

As for the Changpa marksmen, there were six of them, and there were six
arrows in the dead bear. They knew which arrow was whose, because all
had identifying marks. They chattered among themselves, each claiming
that his shaft had been the best. They were still at it after their
comrades had carved the bear into steaks for the evening dinner at the
next campsite.

That pleased Barma Shah, because nobody was interested in the Yeti
tracks any more. He mentioned this fact to Hurdu, who interpreted it to
the Changpas thus:

"You see what fools the Ladakhi are? Day after day, they see tracks in
the snow and think they are Yeti footprints. Instead, they are just bear
tracks. The big bear followed, hoping people have yaks that bear can
kill and eat. Instead, people kill bear and eat it. But people who kill
bear are Changpas, not Ladakhi!"

When they stopped for a noonday meal, the Changpa bowmen were still
arguing whose arrow had killed the big bear. While the other boys were
watching and quietly getting a wallop out of the pantomime, Chandra drew
Biff aside and asked:

"Who do you think really killed the bear?"

"Uncle Charlie fired a lot of shots," replied Biff, "And he may have
made some hits. After all, we didn't dig the bullets out of the carcass.
But I know--and you know--that Barma Shah is a terrific marksman--"

"This is true," interposed Chandra. "But Barma Shah did not kill the
bear. The Yeti did."

Biff stared amazed.

"We saw Yeti," said Chandra. "Didn't we?"

"We saw something go hopping up to the ledge," conceded Biff, "but when
we got there, out popped the big bear."

"From the cave, yes, but I saw Yeti keep going up by rocks above."

"So you said, Chandra. But are you sure?"

"Sure I am sure. Because the number one shot that killed the bear, it
came from up there. Afterward, there was much shooting. But first, the
bear had gone like this."

Chandra gave a perfect imitation of the way the bear had stiffened on
the cliff. So Biff decided not to argue it.

"You may be right," he told Chandra, "but let's keep it to ourselves.
The Yeti is supposed to be right smart, maybe more man than ape. But to
class him as a expert rifleman, well, people just wouldn't go for it."

"You go for it, Biff?"

"I might go for anything, Chandra."

Biff let it go at that, because his own recollections of what had
happened on the ledge were somewhat confused, so he could allow for a
few mistakes on Chandra's part. Besides, there were more important
things to think about. The most important of all was brought up in an
odd way when they pitched camp late that same afternoon. Biff heard Li
and Kamuka begin one of their old arguments, while the other boys
gleefully listened in.

"Well, Kamuka," commented Li in an indulgent tone, "now that you're high
in the Himalayas, how do the Andes stack up?"

"Still bigger," returned Kamuka. "Anyway, they look bigger. That's
what's most important."

Kamuka looked for someone to agree, and he received an approving nod
from Chuba.

"But there are things here that you won't find in the Andes," Li went
on. "For instance"--he caught himself when Biff gave him a warning
glance. Instead of mentioning Yetis, Li made a quick switch. "For
instance, we have Lamas. You don't have people like that in the Andes."

"Sure we do," rejoined Kamuka. "Only they don't look like people. They
look like yaks."

That brought a laugh from Biff, in which Mike joined. Chandra and Chuba
were still puzzled, so Biff explained:

"Li means a Lama, spelled with one 'L' like Li. The Lamas are important
people. We are on our way to see one now. But Kamuka is talking about
llamas, spelled with a double 'l.' They are animals that carry packs in
the Andes, as yaks do here."

Biff left it to Mike to go into further details on the subject while he
went over to talk to Uncle Charlie and Barma Shah. Biff put a simple
question.

"How are we going to find Chonsi?" Biff asked them. "When will we hear
from the Grand Lama, the wisest man in the East?"

"I don't know," began Barma Shah, "unless--"

His eyes narrowed as he spoke. He was looking off toward the nearest
mountain pass, and Biff, following his gaze, saw a tiny figure coming
toward them at a jog-trot.

"What is it?" Biff asked anxiously. "Not--not a Yeti?"

"No, no." Barma Shah had raised a pair of binoculars and was studying
the approaching man. "It is a  longompa , a special kind of runner, who
carries messages from one Lama to another. A longompa can keep up that
pace all day."

"And he may have a message for us?"

"Very possibly."

The rangy longompa never slackened speed until he pulled into the camp.
There, in some uncanny fashion, he picked out the leaders of the party.
But when he approached Barma Shah and Charles Keene, he did not hand
them the envelope he carried. Instead, he gave it to Biff. Then, with a
faraway stare, the runner started off again, oblivious to
everything--including the weather, for despite the freezing temperature,
he wore only a simple goat skin and a pair of open sandals.

Biff opened the envelope and brought out a sheet of parchment which
proved to be a map. He showed it to Uncle Charlie and Barma Shah.
Together, they studied it in the firelight, for it was now dusk. The map
puzzled them completely until Charles Keene declared: "I don't get it.
Somebody has drawn what looks like a streak of lightning--"

"That's it! The Place of Living Thunder!" Barma Shah exclaimed.

He brought out another map and spread it in the firelight. It showed the
whole course that the party had followed. Near the present campsite was
a zig-zag line, exactly like the one on the parchment, but on a smaller
scale.

"It is a chasm a mile deep," explained Barma Shah, "but only half that
distance across. Nobody has ever gone there, because it is supposed to
be impassable." He traced a dotted line on the longompa's chart. "It
must lead to the Lost City of Chonsi. No wonder no one has ever found
it! We'll start for there tomorrow."

They were off to an early start the next morning and soon were among
scenes of grandeur that surpassed any so far encountered. Narrow valleys
filled with odd, colorful flowers formed a contrast to the snow-topped
peaks that loomed high above. Then, abruptly, the trail reached the brim
of a deep, granite-walled canyon. Nearby was a cluster of trees
indicated on the parchment map. A dotted line began from there, so the
party moved into the grove. There they were halted by a big rock until
the boys probed the underbrush around it and found stone steps leading
downward.

Soon, the whole procession was following a dizzy trail chiseled in the
canyon wall. Barma Shah had been right regarding its depth: it was at
least a mile and perhaps more. The vast gulch followed a zigzag as shown
on the map, and as they steadily descended, the brim of the gorge was
totally lost from view, due to the narrowing of the walls.

Then, the zigzag sharpened, and on their own side of the gorge, they saw
a fascinating sight. Through an opening in the granite poured what
looked like a mammoth waterfall, except that it was utterly motionless.
At the bottom, half a mile beneath, was a vast, glassy mass, pock-marked
by thousands of huge stones.

"An icefall!" exclaimed Charles Keene. "A stream of water, frozen solid,
pouring down to a glacier below!"

As he spoke, they saw a chunk of ice and rock drop from the brink and
slide out along the graceful, frozen curve until it dropped straight
down and struck the glacier. Then came a rising echo that reverberated
through the gorge like a long roll of thunder. When the sound finally
died away, Barma Shah said coolly:

"That is why they call it the Place of Living Thunder. People have heard
that roar from the brink above, but we are the first to see what caused
it--except for those who live in the valley."

Their course brought them to the huge icefall. This time Charles Keene
and Barma Shah led the way together, followed by Hurdu and the Tibetan
bearers, with Biff and the boys bringing up the rear. The path seemed a
very safe one, being hewn in the solid rock. Granite steps took them
upward to the overhanging curve of the giant icefall. Above that, a
bridge of large steppingstones crossed the whitish flowing mass.

Biff, in the lead, leaped to the first stone and felt it quiver. He
should have turned back, but instead, he tried to jump on to the next.
The first stone suddenly went from under him, spilling Biff backward.
Mike, who had reached the top of the steps, grabbed for Biff's hand and
caught it with both of his own. Then Mike was swept off balance by the
force of Biff's slide. Both would have gone skimming over the brink,
except that Chuba and Kamuka, coming next, were in time to catch Mike's
ankles and hold them.

They hadn't the strength to pull the pair back, and Biff, from his
precarious position, realized why. That curving brink of perpetual ice
was so smooth that it offered nothing in the way of a hold, not even the
slightest amount of friction. Slowly, surely, the drag would bring all
four along, unless someone's hold gave out.

In any case, Biff Brewster would be the first to slide out over that
fatal curve and plunge the half mile to the glacier below!




                                  XIX
                             The Lost City


From his hopeless perch, Biff heard Kamuka and Chuba shouting up above.
"Come on, you fellows!" they yelled. "Lend a hand!" They were calling to
Li and Chandra, who were still coming up the granite steps, but it was
useless. Biff and Mike represented too much dead weight, even for all
four.

Mike had Biff's wrist in a powerful grip. They were face to face as Biff
looked up and said, "You'll have to let go, Mike. They may be able to
haul you back, but not both of us."

"It's both," gritted Mike, "or neither!"

"But you'll only be dragging the others along, too. Can't you
understand?"

"No." Mike grinned grimly as he was jolted upward. Then, as he slipped
back downward, he added, "Yes."

Mike realized that Li had joined Chuba and Kamuka; that with Li's
helping hand, they had managed a temporary lift, only to lose what
little they had gained. But Mike still gripped Biff.

"Chandra will be helping them next," Mike said reassuringly. "With four
pulling, it will make a difference."

"Yes, they'll manage to hold on a little longer," groaned Biff, "but it
can't change things, Mike. They still can haul you up, if you'll only
let go."

"Only I  won't  let go!"

A sharp sound was beating through Biff's brain. It came,
"Crack--crack--crack--" in deadly monotone. He imagined he heard a new
voice too, Chandra's voice, saying, "I'll be there, Biff!" Then came the
"Crack--crack--" and again, "I'll be there--" closer, it seemed, and
just below. For the first time, Biff steeled his nerve and looked down.

Chandra  was  there! On the curving brink itself, hanging to the ice
where it was steeper than the spot where Biff himself was stretched. In
his hand, Chandra held his axe, which he had retrieved after hurling it
at the bear. With it, he was chopping into the ice, making those
"Crack--crack--" sounds. Chandra hadn't gone up the steps to join the
boys above. Instead, he had hacked steps of his own into the fringe of
the icefall!

He'd made enough to gain hand and toeholds for himself. Working up from
those at an outward angle, he had literally chopped a slanted ladder,
climbing it as he did. Now he was denting the ice beside Biff's right
ankle. That done, he shoved Biff's right foot into place. Biff shifted
his weight in that direction. Instantly the strain on Mike lessened just
enough for him to open his half-closed eyes and stare downward in
wonder.

Crack--crack--crack--

There was a toehold for Biff's left foot now. That really eased the
strain, for Mike's body immediately moved up a bit, pulled by the boys
above. Chandra kept hacking, more steps, higher; Biff kept climbing the
new ones, leaving the old to Chandra, who promptly followed. Then
suddenly, Mike was up to safety and they were hauling Biff up, too, when
he gasped:

"Wait! I'm bringing Chandra, too!"

So Biff was, for by now Chandra was tiring. He clung to Biff's leg with
one hand and kept chopping steps with the other, just enough to work
himself up. Then hands from above gripped Chandra, and he and Biff were
hauled up side by side.

Kamuka found a board from an old catwalk and used it to bridge the gap
across the missing steppingstone. One by one, the boys crossed the
frozen stream above the mammoth icefall. They found steps on the other
side and descended for nearly half a mile before they overtook the
party. Charles Keene, Barma Shah, Hurdu, and all the rest were waiting
on a great, wide lookout platform, viewing a stupendously breathtaking
scene.

There, set in a tremendous niche across the mile-deep gorge, was the
Lost City of Chonsi. There were small stone huts in the foreground.
These, if seen from straight above, would look like nothing more than
rock heaps. But the pride of Chonsi, the palace of the Grand Lama, rose
above a towering array of great stone steps and castellated walls
forming tier after tier of magnificent buildings to a height of nearly
five hundred feet, only to be dwarfed by the more tremendous mass of the
cliff that overhung it.

From the top of the great gorge it would be impossible even to glimpse
this hidden wonder of the Himalayas in the massive hollow that had been
hewn to contain it. Yet its relation to the gorge was such that sunlight
streamed down into this secret setting during a good proportion of the
day.

Barma Shah summed it up when he stated:

"There is an old saying: 'As long as the Himalayas stand, so will
Chonsi.' Now I understand its meaning. If that cliff should tumble, the
city would fall, too."

Amazed at the sight of the stupendous citadel, Biff did not tell his
Uncle Charlie and Barma Shah about his near-plunge from the icefall.
Instead, he reminded them of his mission:

"The sooner we get over there, the quicker we will find my father."

Both men agreed, but Barma Shah added, "You will have to see the Grand
Lama first."

That was the part that worried Biff most, though he didn't say so. Now
that he was practically at his goal, he felt shakier than ever, for the
Chonsi Lama now represented power on a vast scale, considering the size
of his secret stronghold.

The party continued down the granite trail, which zigzagged to the
bottom of the canyon and there crossed a deep but narrow stream on a
bridge of simple logs. At the other side, they came to a great wall,
where gates were being swung wide to receive them. They were ushered in
by lesser lamas and other dignitaries, all wearing robes and costumes of
an ancient day.

[Illustration:  There, across the mile-deep gorge, was the Lost City of
Chonsi ]

With Hurdu and the porters following, they were conducted up outer
steps, then deep beneath a portico and up more steps until they reached
a magnificently tiled inner courtyard, where they were bowed to rows of
benches. An elderly lama approached and gestured to Biff, as he said,
"You may come."

Next, he addressed Charles Keene and Barma Shah. "You two may follow."
Then, to the boys, "And you next." Pausing, he looked toward the porters
and asked, "Any of these?"

Barma Shah decided to bring Hurdu and three others. So, in the order as
arranged, they entered another portico and climbed a short flight of
gilded steps into a reception room also decorated in gold. There, Biff
was told that he was to enter the throne-room of the Grand Lama alone,
while Charles Keene and Barma Shah were to be ready when summoned.

Golden doors were opening when Uncle Charlie whispered to Biff,
"Remember, you're meeting one of the wisest men in the East, as I can
now believe. Pay close attention." To that, Biff nodded. Then, as
trumpets blared, he was ushered through the doors, clutching the ruby
that he had carried all along as his final passport to the Grand Lama's
presence.

Then Biff reached a throne where a figure in great golden robes and
peaked hat awaited him. On each side stood a solemn dignitary, each in
similar robes. One asked in a droning tone, "You have brought the Light
of the Lama?" Then as Biff solemnly replied, "Yes," the other dignitary
ordered, "Give it to the Great One."

No promises, no conditions, no mention of Biff's father. Just hand over
the ruby and hope for the best. With a bow, Biff produced the
magnificent red gem, which was glowing more vividly than ever. He placed
it in the Chonsi Lama's outstretched left hand. Then, hoping to ask the
obvious question, he looked up at the Great One.

Biff gasped despite himself. Instead of viewing the austere visage of a
man in his mid-fifties, he was looking into the smiling, friendly face
of a boy no older than himself. Still weighing the ruby in his left
hand, the Chonsi Lama extended his right in greeting, as he said:

"Thank you, Biff!"




                                   XX
                             The Master Spy


Before Biff could recover from his astonishment, the Chonsi Lama nodded
to one of the men beside him. A moment later, a door opened in the side
of the room and Mr. Brewster entered, as brisk and smiling as when Biff
had last seen him. A glad meeting followed. Then, with his arm around
Biff's shoulder, Mr. Brewster approached the throne, where the youthful
Lama handed him the ruby, saying, "I know you would like to see this,
after all you have done to bring it here."

Biff suddenly felt very much at home with this boy who was so friendly
toward his father.

"The ruby is sparkling now," said Biff, "but it changes sometimes and
turns dull. That worried Diwan Chand."

"Due probably to the setting," observed Mr. Brewster with a smile. "If
moisture gets beneath the gem, it detracts from the sparkle, but only
temporarily."

"I am glad to hear that." The Chonsi Lama smiled, as he took back the
ruby. "I notice that its glow has lessened, and I do not care for bad
omens."

As he placed the ruby in his robe, the Chonsi Lama turned to Biff again.

"Your father told me much about you," he said. "That was one reason why
I wanted you to bring the ruby, as it was a good way to meet you. But we
weren't quite ready to tell the world that I am now the Chonsi Lama. At
last we can declare it."

He turned to one of the robed dignitaries.

"Usher in the others," he ordered. Then, as an afterthought, he added,
"Bring the boys in first."

As Biff and his father stepped to one side, Mr. Brewster quietly
explained that the former Chonsi Lama had died a few years after his
visit to Leh, some twenty years before.

"He gave orders to keep his death a secret," explained Biff's father,
"until times became less troubled. So a boy who was born at the time the
old Lama died was chosen to succeed him. He grew up on the throne, and
there he is now. I was as much surprised as you when I met him."

More surprises were due. As Biff's friends were ushered in, they looked
as awed as Biff had been when he approached the throne. Awe turned to
amazement when the boy Lama greeted them each by name and gave them the
same winning smile that he had shown Biff.

"Bring in the others," the Chonsi Lama ordered, referring to Charles
Keene and Barma Shah. He turned to Mr. Brewster. "I shall now officially
announce that your mission is complete," he said. "The Light of the Lama
has been returned. Since it was restored by the present government of
India, I shall ally myself with that nation for our mutual advantage. As
for the trouble you encountered at the gold mines, it still has puzzling
factors--"

The Chonsi Lama broke off to greet the newcomers who were being ushered
in. To Charles Keene, he said cordially, "I know you must be Biff's
uncle." Then, turning to the other man, he added, "And you are Barma
Shah--"

Mr. Brewster was coming forward in quick interruption to confront the
bland man with the broad face and the wide ears. Biff, accustomed to his
father's calm, was surprised to hear Mr. Brewster exclaim excitedly,
"Wait! This man is not Barma Shah. He is an impostor! I have never seen
him before!"

"No, I am not Barma Shah," the impostor stated. "But are you sure we
haven't met? Don't you remember--"

He drew his hands over his ears, pursed his lips and narrowed his eyes
to thin slits as he leered mockingly at Biff's father. His complete
change of appearance was startling.

"The spy we nearly trapped down at the mine!" Mr. Brewster exclaimed.
"You are Bela Kron, the man who was after the ruby!"

"Yes, I am Bela Kron," the master spy answered, smiling. "And I took the
place of your friend Barma Shah after he was killed in a Calcutta riot
of a month ago. Now, I am taking over here!"

Kron, the pretended Barma Shah, was drawing a revolver from his pocket.
He had raised his voice and it must have carried beyond the golden
doors, for they suddenly burst open to admit Hurdu and the three men
with him. No longer were the Changpas carrying bows and arrows. Hurdu
had a revolver, and the others were similarly armed.

Efficiently, Kron motioned the robed dignitaries to one corner of the
throne room, Thomas Brewster and Charles Keene to another, Biff and the
boys to a third. That left the youthful Chonsi Lama still on his
throne--for how long was a question, though he took the situation
calmly.

Pleased by the way he and his picked crew had taken over, Bela Kron
decided to enlarge upon it.

"I started the trouble at the mines," he bragged. "I wanted to acquire
the Rajah's ruby as a passport to bring me to this hidden citadel, so I
could either make my own terms with the Chonsi Lama, or else notify
certain foreign factions just where they could find him. Brewster beat
me here, but when I learned his son was bringing the ruby, I decided to
come along with him."

With a mocking look toward Biff, Kron swept his hand around his head,
turban fashion, then downward from his chin to indicate a beard.

"Remember that Sikh in the bus?" he demanded. "The one with the false
beard? I was that Sikh. That's how I picked up your trail. I saw Chandra
buy the tickets, and I purposely crossed your path later.

"For other reasons, I had helped stir the Kali cult into making trouble,
but I didn't know they were hot after you. So from then on, I looked out
for you, knowing that as Barma Shah, your father's friend and contact,
you would bring me here. I saved your life during the tiger hunt, and
again, when the bear was after you. I tried to get rid of your uncle on
the bridge, because I didn't want him in the way. So I had Hurdu cut the
cable."

Kron glanced at Hurdu, who shrugged apologetically.

"Hurdu was slow that time," declared Kron, "but he did a good job faking
Yeti tracks to scare Tikse and his crew clear back to Leh, so we could
hire the Changpas, who were waiting in the valley where the trails met."

It seemed that Bela Kron, the master spy, had called every possible
turn. But he had a still bigger trick to play.

"My men are stationed in the courtyard below," he declared. "I shall
have Hurdu send two of his men down and bring the rest up." He waved
toward the door, and Hurdu promptly started the two men on their way.
"Then we shall leave, taking you with us." Kron approached the Chonsi
Lama as he spoke. "It will take all the wealth of this hidden city to
make the first payment on your ransom."

Calmly, the youthful Lama studied Kron, then smiled as though ready to
accept whatever fate decreed. Kron responded with a glare, then swung to
view the others in the same ugly fashion.

"I'll soon decide what to do with the rest of you," Kron began. "In
fact--" he paused as a heavy rap sounded on the golden door--"I'll
decide right now, because Hurdu's men are back. Let them in, Hurdu."
Hurdu turned and opened the door. As he did, he came flying back as
though a tornado had hit him. Hurdu's gun scaled from his hand as he
landed hard and flat. The one man still with Hurdu was jumping in to
help him, only to be sprawled in the same efficient fashion.

Now, Biff saw the man with the double-barreled fists who had played the
part of a human whirlwind. Biff raised a shout that the other boys
echoed:

"Muscles!"




                                  XXI
                          Secret of the Snows


Bela Kron, though standing ready with his gun, was caught flatfooted by
the speed and power that Muscles showed. Kron was a crack shot, but he
had to wait until Hurdu and the other husky guard were out of the way
before he could open fire. In his eagerness to concentrate on Muscles,
Kron forgot two others.

Those two were Thomas Brewster and Charles Keene. Knowing exactly how
far Muscles could carry his drive, Biff's father and uncle acted
accordingly. At the crucial moment, they launched a double drive of
their own. Kron, coming to deliberate aim as Muscles hulked up as a
target, was suddenly overwhelmed before he could pull the trigger of his
gun.

Excitedly, Biff and the other boys were pointing to the outer room where
more figures were appearing, but Muscles motioned for them to be calm.
Then, through the doorway, came Tikse and half a dozen of his Ladakhi
crew. Amiably, Muscles waved them out, saying, "Never mind, boys, you
won't be needed."

The men from Leh realized suddenly that they were in the presence of the
Chonsi Lama, and that in itself accomplished results. Bowing low, they
backed out through the golden doors. Gravely, the Chonsi Lama returned
their bows until they were gone. Then he turned to Biff and said, "If
you introduce your friend Muscles, I will grant him an audience. Then he
can tell his story of how he turned the tables."

Biff introduced Muscles, who responded characteristically.

"Everything's under control," he said, "so I can take time out to talk.
It seems like talking is getting to be the best thing I do. Those
Sherpas we landed among thought I was what they called a Yeti, but I
talked them out of it.

"Then they were so glad, they were ready to do anything I wanted, so I
talked them into coming over this way and catching up with the party
that was on its way here, just on the chance I might be needed.

"We tried to take a short cut and whom did we run into?" Muscles turned
to Biff. "Your whole crew of porters, heading back to Leh. When they
told me they'd been seeing Yeti tracks, I figured somebody had been
faking them."

"Somebody was," returned Biff. "Hurdu."

The Chonsi Lama was becoming more and more intrigued. He expressed the
eagerness felt by all the boys when he suddenly urged, "Go on, Muscles,
tell us more!"

"Well, your honor," Muscles resumed, suddenly impressed by the youthful
Lama's robe, "I did some more talking to Tikse and his friends. I told
them that there weren't any such things as Yetis, and that having been
mistaken for one, I was somebody who should know. So they turned right
around and came along with me.

"Then, to convince them further, I rigged myself up in an old yak hide
and wrapped old towels around my shoes, so I could scare Hurdu and his
tribe into thinking they were really looking at a Yeti and not just his
footprints."

"So you were the thing we saw go bounding up the ledge!" exclaimed Biff.

"That's right," said Muscles. "I kept on going, too, clear up beyond a
big rock pile."

Chandra turned to Biff. "You see? I was right."

"It was dark when I started out," continued Muscles, "so I brought a
rifle with me. I'd left it up behind the rock pile, and when I saw you
tangling with that big bear, I up and clipped him, first shot. There was
other shooting coming from down your way, so I had my chance to clear
out and did."

"And you followed us from then on?" queried Biff.

"Sure did," returned Muscles. "We saw you go into a woods and disappear,
so we did the same and found the steps that brought us down here. They
let us in when I said I was with you, Biff, so I guess you're pretty
important around here."

"Biff is important here," declared the Chonsi Lama. "Very important."

"I decided to take over," Muscles went on, "when we found a lot of
Hurdu's men down in the courtyard. We jumped them before they knew what
to expect. They knew, though, when they got it. I came on up and ran
into a couple of Hurdu's men coming down. So I bagged them and turned
them over to my crew. Then I walked in here, and you saw the rest."

It was time now for the Chonsi Lama to hold a conference with his
advisers, so he politely bowed his visitors and rescuers out. On the way
down from the throne room, Biff said to Muscles, "So you don't believe
there are such things as Yetis?"

"I didn't when I came here," returned Muscles, "but after one look at
this place, I am ready to believe anything."

They left Bela Kron, Hurdu, and a few of his men in the custody of the
palace guards, a dozen men in garish red-and-yellow uniforms whose chief
business was blowing trumpets, opening doors, and participating in
ceremonies generally. The guards were armed with brass muskets that
looked like models of ancient Chinese cannon and probably hadn't been
fired since the day gunpowder was invented.

The guards were good custodians, however, for the massive buildings
forming the foundations of the slant-walled palace were honeycombed with
secret passages and hidden cells. Escape was impossible, even for Bela
Kron, the master spy, and his principal followers.

As for the rest, they were simply Changpa tribesmen who had been coaxed
in from remote Tibet by Hurdu, just as Muscles had brought in the
visiting Sherpas from Nepal. By now, Sherpas and Changpas were becoming
friends, rather than one group having the other in its charge. The
Ladakhi, too, were fraternizing with both groups and all were so
overwhelmed by the importance of the Chonsi Lama that they were ready to
follow his commands. So they were given the freedom of the fabulous city
until the time should come for them to return to their native climes.

Mr. Brewster sat in on the conferences held by the Chonsi Lama and his
advisers, with Charles Keene an occasional participant in the
deliberations. During breaks in the session, they chatted with Biff and
the other boys, who were lodged in special guest quarters with Muscles.

"When the previous Lama died," Mr. Brewster stated, "he saw to it that
his successor would be educated in modern ways as well as those of
ancient days. Your friend, the young Lama, had an English tutor and is
versed in other modern languages as well. He is now just sixteen years
old and has two more years to go until he is of age.

"The two men you saw with him were the Acting Regent and the Prime
Minister, who have been keeping Chonsi as it was, until the new Grand
Lama takes full power. But now that the Rajah's ruby has been returned
to become again the Light of the Lama, they have decided that this is
their day of decision. All agree that Chonsi no longer should be the
Lost City."

That became official the next day. The natives of Chonsi were told that
they were free to visit the outer world without restriction. The Chonsi
Lama entrusted Mr. Brewster with state despatches to be taken to New
Delhi, so that the boundaries of tiny Chonsi could be defined and its
status determined through international negotiations. Bela Kron, Hurdu,
and a few others were to be turned over to the government of India, as
they were wanted for crimes committed within the jurisdiction of that
nation.

Biff and the boys had a last pleasant visit with the Chonsi Lama and
then were on their way. All Chonsi was out to wave farewell to the
departing visitors. From the distance came booming sounds like a parting
salute, but not from guns. Those were the reverberations from the
crashing masses of rock and ice that so frequently toppled from the
granite walls that flanked this narrow land, the Place of Living
Thunder.

All the porters and native tribesmen made the return climb from the
mile-deep chasm and back through the mountain passes beyond. There were
no serious incidents along the way, as the expedition no longer was
troubled with plotters such as Bela Kron and Hurdu. Instead of returning
to Leh with the Ladakhi, Biff and his father and the rest of the party
continued south to the ranges where the Sherpas lived.

There, Charles Keene and Muscles put the plane in flying order, and
after a few pleasant days in the fertile valley, the first group took
off for New Delhi. Charles Keene was at the controls. With him were Mr.
Brewster, Biff, Chandra, and Kamuka, all of whom could give first-hand
evidence concerning the double dealings of the notorious Bela Kron.

Charles Keene was then to fly back to the Sherpa valley and pick up
Muscles, Li, Chuba, and Mike Arista, to bring them on to New Delhi,
where all the boys would meet again. But as the plane climbed high above
the mountain pass, thoughts of a more immediate reunion flashed through
Biff's mind and brought an anticipatory smile to his lips.

By the time they reached New Delhi, Biff's mother would be there from
Darjeeling, with the twins. Eyes half closed, Biff could already picture
the eager faces of Ted and Monica as his brother and sister waited
breathlessly to hear the full story of his latest adventures!





Produced by David Garcia, Beginners Projects, Lee Ann Rael,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team









The Mysterious Key and What it Opened

By L. M. Alcott






Chapter I

THE PROPHECY

   Trevlyn lands and Trevlyn gold,
  Heir nor heiress e'er shall hold,
  Undisturbed, till, spite of rust,
  Truth is found in Trevlyn dust. 


"This is the third time I've found you poring over that old rhyme. What
is the charm, Richard? Not its poetry I fancy." And the young wife laid
a slender hand on the yellow, time-worn page where, in Old English text,
appeared the lines she laughed at.

Richard Trevlyn looked up with a smile and threw by the book, as if
annoyed at being discovered reading it. Drawing his wife's hand through
his own, he led her back to her couch, folded the soft shawls about her,
and, sitting in a low chair beside her, said in a cheerful tone, though
his eyes betrayed some hidden care, "My love, that book is a history of
our family for centuries, and that old prophecy has never yet been
fulfilled, except the 'heir and heiress' line. I am the last Trevlyn,
and as the time draws near when my child shall be born, I naturally
think of his future, and hope he will enjoy his heritage in peace."

"God grant it!" softly echoed Lady Trevlyn, adding, with a look askance
at the old book, "I read that history once, and fancied it must be a
romance, such dreadful things are recorded in it. Is it all true,
Richard?"

"Yes, dear. I wish it was not. Ours has been a wild, unhappy race till
the last generation or two. The stormy nature came in with old Sir
Ralph, the fierce Norman knight, who killed his only son in a fit of
wrath, by a blow with his steel gauntlet, because the boy's strong will
would not yield to his."

"Yes, I remember, and his daughter Clotilde held the castle during a
siege, and married her cousin, Count Hugo. 'Tis a warlike race, and I
like it in spite of the mad deeds."

"Married her cousin! That has been the bane of our family in times past.
Being too proud to mate elsewhere, we have kept to ourselves till idiots
and lunatics began to appear. My father was the first who broke the law
among us, and I followed his example: choosing the freshest, sturdiest
flower I could find to transplant into our exhausted soil."

"I hope it will do you honor by blossoming bravely. I never forget that
you took me from a very humble home, and have made me the happiest wife
in England."

"And I never forget that you, a girl of eighteen, consented to leave
your hills and come to cheer the long-deserted house of an old man like
me," returned her husband fondly.

"Nay, don't call yourself old, Richard; you are only forty-five, the
boldest, handsomest man in Warwickshire. But lately you look worried;
what is it? Tell me, and let me advise or comfort you."

"It is nothing, Alice, except my natural anxiety for you--Well,
Kingston, what do you want?"

Trevlyn's tender tones grew sharp as he addressed the entering servant,
and the smile on his lips vanished, leaving them dry and white as he
glanced at the card he handed him. An instant he stood staring at it,
then asked, "Is the man here?"

"In the library, sir."

"I'll come."

Flinging the card into the fire, he watched it turn to ashes before he
spoke, with averted eyes: "Only some annoying business, love; I shall
soon be with you again. Lie and rest till I come."

With a hasty caress he left her, but as he passed a mirror, his wife saw
an expression of intense excitement in his face. She said nothing, and
lay motionless for several minutes evidently struggling with some strong
impulse.

"He is ill and anxious, but hides it from me; I have a right to know,
and he'll forgive me when I prove that it does no harm."

As she spoke to herself she rose, glided noiselessly through the hall,
entered a small closet built in the thickness of the wall, and, bending
to the keyhole of a narrow door, listened with a half-smile on her lips
at the trespass she was committing. A murmur of voices met her ear. Her
husband spoke oftenest, and suddenly some word of his dashed the smile
from her face as if with a blow. She started, shrank, and shivered,
bending lower with set teeth, white cheeks, and panic-stricken heart.
Paler and paler grew her lips, wilder and wilder her eyes, fainter and
fainter her breath, till, with a long sigh, a vain effort to save
herself, she sank prone upon the threshold of the door, as if struck
down by death.

"Mercy on us, my lady, are you ill?" cried Hester, the maid, as her
mistress glided into the room looking like a ghost, half an hour later.

"I am faint and cold. Help me to my bed, but do not disturb Sir
Richard."

A shiver crept over her as she spoke, and, casting a wild, woeful look
about her, she laid her head upon the pillow like one who never cared to
lift it up again. Hester, a sharp-eyed, middle-aged woman, watched the
pale creature for a moment, then left the room muttering, "Something is
wrong, and Sir Richard must know it. That black-bearded man came for no
good, I'll warrant."

At the door of the library she paused. No sound of voices came from
within; a stifled groan was all she heard; and without waiting to knock
she went in, fearing she knew not what. Sir Richard sat at his writing
table pen in hand, but his face was hidden on his arm, and his whole
attitude betrayed the presence of some overwhelming despair.

"Please, sir, my lady is ill. Shall I send for anyone?"

No answer. Hester repeated her words, but Sir Richard never stirred.
Much alarmed, the woman raised his head, saw that he was unconscious,
and rang for help. But Richard Trevlyn was past help, though he lingered
for some hours. He spoke but once, murmuring faintly, "Will Alice come
to say good-bye?"

"Bring her if she can come," said the physician.

Hester went, found her mistress lying as she left her, like a figure
carved in stone. When she gave the message, Lady Trevlyn answered
sternly, "Tell him I will not come," and turned her face to the wall,
with an expression which daunted the woman too much for another word.

Hester whispered the hard answer to the physician, fearing to utter it
aloud, but Sir Richard heard it, and died with a despairing prayer for
pardon on his lips.

When day dawned Sir Richard lay in his shroud and his little daughter in
her cradle, the one unwept, the other unwelcomed by the wife and mother,
who, twelve hours before, had called herself the happiest woman in
England. They thought her dying, and at her own command gave her the
sealed letter bearing her address which her husband left behind him. She
read it, laid it in her bosom, and, waking from the trance which seemed
to have so strongly chilled and changed her, besought those about her
with passionate earnestness to save her life.

For two days she hovered on the brink of the grave, and nothing but the
indomitable will to live saved her, the doctors said. On the third day
she rallied wonderfully, and some purpose seemed to gift her with
unnatural strength. Evening came, and the house was very still, for all
the sad bustle of preparation for Sir Richard's funeral was over, and he
lay for the last night under his own roof. Hester sat in the darkened
chamber of her mistress, and no sound broke the hush but the low lullaby
the nurse was singing to the fatherless baby in the adjoining room. Lady
Trevlyn seemed to sleep, but suddenly put back the curtain, saying
abruptly, "Where does he lie?"

"In the state chamber, my lady," replied Hester, anxiously watching the
feverish glitter of her mistress's eye, the flush on her cheek, and the
unnatural calmness of her manner.

"Help me to go there; I must see him."

"It would be your death, my lady. I beseech you, don't think of it,"
began the woman; but Lady Trevlyn seemed not to hear her, and something
in the stern pallor of her face awed the woman into submission.

Wrapping the slight form of her mistress in a warm cloak, Hester
half-led, half-carried her to the state room, and left her on the
threshold.

"I must go in alone; fear nothing, but wait for me here," she said, and
closed the door behind her.

Five minutes had not elapsed when she reappeared with no sign of grief
on her rigid face.

"Take me to my bed and bring my jewel box," she said, with a shuddering
sigh, as the faithful servant received her with an exclamation of
thankfulness.

When her orders had been obeyed, she drew from her bosom the portrait of
Sir Richard which she always wore, and, removing the ivory oval from the
gold case, she locked the former in a tiny drawer of the casket,
replaced the empty locket in her breast, and bade Hester give the jewels
to Watson, her lawyer, who would see them put in a safe place till the
child was grown.

"Dear heart, my lady, you'll wear them yet, for you're too young to
grieve all your days, even for so good a man as my blessed master. Take
comfort, and cheer up, for the dear child's sake if no more."

"I shall never wear them again" was all the answer as Lady Trevlyn drew
the curtains, as if to shut out hope.

Sir Richard was buried and, the nine days' gossip over, the mystery of
his death died for want of food, for the only person who could have
explained it was in a state which forbade all allusion to that tragic
day.

For a year Lady Trevlyn's reason was in danger. A long fever left her so
weak in mind and body that there was little hope of recovery, and her
days were passed in a state of apathy sad to witness. She seemed to have
forgotten everything, even the shock which had so sorely stricken her.
The sight of her child failed to rouse her, and month after month
slipped by, leaving no trace of their passage on her mind, and but
slightly renovating her feeble body.

Who the stranger was, what his aim in coming, or why he never
reappeared, no one discovered. The contents of the letter left by Sir
Richard were unknown, for the paper had been destroyed by Lady Trevlyn
and no clue could be got from her. Sir Richard had died of heart
disease, the physicians said, though he might have lived years had no
sudden shock assailed him. There were few relatives to make
investigations, and friends soon forgot the sad young widow; so the
years rolled on, and Lillian the heiress grew from infancy to childhood
in the shadow of this mystery.




Chapter II

PAUL


"Come, child, the dew is falling, and it is time we went in."

"No, no, Mamma is not rested yet, so I may run down to the spring if I
like." And Lillian, as willful as winsome, vanished among the tall ferns
where deer couched and rabbits hid.

Hester leisurely followed, looking as unchanged as if a day instead of
twelve years had passed since her arms received the little mistress, who
now ruled her like a tyrant. She had taken but a few steps when the
child came flying back, exclaiming in an excited tone, "Oh, come quick!
There's a man there, a dead man. I saw him and I'm frightened!"

"Nonsense, child, it's one of the keepers asleep, or some stroller who
has no business here. Take my hand and we'll see who it is."

Somewhat reassured, Lillian led her nurse to one of the old oaks beside
the path, and pointed to a figure lying half hidden in the fern. A
slender, swarthy boy of sixteen, with curly black hair, dark brows, and
thick lashes, a singularly stern mouth, and a general expression of
strength and pride, which added character to his boyish face and
dignified his poverty. His dress betrayed that, being dusty and
threadbare, his shoes much worn, and his possessions contained in the
little bundle on which he pillowed his head. He was sleeping like one
quite spent with weariness, and never stirred, though Hester bent away
the ferns and examined him closely.

"He's not dead, my deary; he's asleep, poor lad, worn out with his day's
tramp, I dare say." "I'm glad he's alive, and I wish he'd wake up. He's
a pretty boy, isn't he? See what nice hands he's got, and his hair is
more curly than mine. Make him open his eyes, Hester," commanded the
little lady, whose fear had given place to interest.

"Hush, he's stirring. I wonder how he got in, and what he wants,"
whispered Hester.

"I'll ask him," and before her nurse could arrest her, Lillian drew a
tall fern softly over the sleeper's face, laughing aloud as she did so.

The boy woke at the sound, and without stirring lay looking up at the
lovely little face bent over him, as if still in a dream.

" Bella cara ," he said, in a musical voice. Then, as the child drew
back abashed at the glance of his large, bright eyes, he seemed to wake
entirely and, springing to his feet, looked at Hester with a quick,
searching glance. Something in his face and air caused the woman to
soften her tone a little, as she said gravely, "Did you wish to see any
one at the Hall?"

"Yes. Is Lady Trevlyn here?" was the boy's answer, as he stood cap in
hand, with the smile fading already from his face.

"She is, but unless your business is very urgent you had better see
Parks, the keeper; we don't trouble my lady with trifles."

"I've a note for her from Colonel Daventry; and as it is  not  a trifle,
I'll deliver it myself, if you please."

Hester hesitated an instant, but Lillian cried out, "Mamma is close by,
come and see her," and led the way, beckoning as she ran.

The lad followed with a composed air, and Hester brought up the rear,
taking notes as she went with a woman's keen eye.

Lady Trevlyn, a beautiful, pale woman, delicate in health and melancholy
in spirit, sat on a rustic seat with a book in her hand; not reading,
but musing with an absent mind. As the child approached, she held out
her hand to welcome her, but neither smiled nor spoke.

"Mamma, here is a--a person to see you," cried Lillian, rather at a loss
how to designate the stranger, whose height and gravity now awed her.

"A note from Colonel Daventry, my lady," and with a bow the boy
delivered the missive.

Scarcely glancing at him, she opened it and read:

 My Dear Friend ,

 The bearer of this, Paul Jex, has been with me some months and has
served me well. I brought him from Paris, but he is English born, and,
though friendless, prefers to remain here, even after we leave, as we do
in a week. When I last saw you you mentioned wanting a lad to help in
the garden; Paul is accustomed to that employment, though my wife used
him as a sort of page in the house. Hoping you may be able to give him
shelter, I venture to send him. He is honest, capable, and trustworthy
in all respects. Pray try him, and oblige ,

 Yours sincerely ,

 J. R. Daventry 

"The place is still vacant, and I shall be very glad to give it to you,
if you incline to take it," said Lady Trevlyn, lifting her eyes from the
note and scanning the boy's face.

"I do, madam," he answered respectfully.

"The colonel says you are English," added the lady, in a tone of
surprise.

The boy smiled, showing a faultless set of teeth, as he replied, "I am,
my lady, though just now I may not look it, being much tanned and very
dusty. My father was an Englishman, but I've lived abroad a good deal
since he died, and got foreign ways, perhaps."

As he spoke without any accent, and looked full in her face with a pair
of honest blue eyes under the dark lashes, Lady Trevlyn's momentary
doubt vanished.

"Your age, Paul?"

"Sixteen, my lady."

"You understand gardening?"

"Yes, my lady."

"And what else?"

"I can break horses, serve at table, do errands, read aloud, ride after
a young lady as groom, illuminate on parchment, train flowers, and make
myself useful in any way."

The tone, half modest, half eager, in which the boy spoke, as well as
the odd list of his accomplishments, brought a smile to Lady Trevlyn's
lips, and the general air of the lad prepossessed her.

"I want Lillian to ride soon, and Roger is rather old for an escort to
such a little horsewoman. Don't you think we might try Paul?" she said,
turning to Hester.

The woman gravely eyed the lad from head to foot, and shook her head,
but an imploring little gesture and a glance of the handsome eyes
softened her heart in spite of herself.

"Yes, my lady, if he does well about the place, and Parks thinks he's
steady enough, we might try it by-and-by."

Lillian clapped her hands and, drawing nearer, exclaimed confidingly, as
she looked up at her new groom, "I know he'll do, Mamma. I like him very
much, and I hope you'll let him train my pony for me. Will you, Paul?"

"Yes."

As he spoke very low and hastily, the boy looked away from the eager
little face before him, and a sudden flush of color crossed his dark
cheek.

Hester saw it and said within herself, "That boy has good blood in his
veins. He's no clodhopper's son, I can tell by his hands and feet, his
air and walk. Poor lad, it's hard for him, I'll warrant, but he's not
too proud for honest work, and I like that."

"You may stay, Paul, and we will try you for a month. Hester, take him
to Parks and see that he is made comfortable. Tomorrow we will see what
he can do. Come, darling, I am rested now."

As she spoke, Lady Trevlyn dismissed the boy with a gracious gesture and
led her little daughter away. Paul stood watching her, as if forgetful
of his companion, till she said, rather tartly, "Young man, you'd better
have thanked my lady while she was here than stare after her now it's
too late. If you want to see Parks, you'd best come, for I'm going."

"Is that the family tomb yonder, where you found me asleep?" was the
unexpected reply to her speech, as the boy quietly followed her, not at
all daunted by her manner.

"Yes, and that reminds me to ask how you got in, and why you were
napping there, instead of doing your errand properly?"

"I leaped the fence and stopped to rest before presenting myself, Miss
Hester" was the cool answer, accompanied by a short laugh as he
confessed his trespass.

"You look as if you'd had a long walk; where are you from?"

"London."

"Bless the boy! It's fifty miles away."

"So my shoes show; but it's a pleasant trip in summer time."

"But why did you walk, child! Had you no money?"

"Plenty, but not for wasting on coaches, when my own stout legs could
carry me. I took a two days' holiday and saved my money for better
things."

"I like that," said Hester, with an approving nod. "You'll get on, my
lad, if that's your way, and I'll lend a hand, for laziness is my
abomination, and one sees plenty nowadays."

"Thank you. That's friendly, and I'll prove that I am grateful. Please
tell me, is my lady ill?"

"Always delicate since Sir Richard died."

"How long ago was that?"

"Ten years or more."

"Are there no young gentlemen in the family?"

"No, Miss Lillian is an only child, and a sweet one, bless her!"

"A proud little lady, I should say."

"And well she may be, for there's no better blood in England than the
Trevlyns, and she's heiress to a noble fortune."

"Is that the Trevlyn coat of arms?" asked the boy abruptly, pointing to
a stone falcon with the motto ME AND MINE carved over the gate through
which they were passing.

"Yes. Why do you ask?"

"Mere curiosity; I know something of heraldry and often paint these
things for my own pleasure. One learns odd amusements abroad," he added,
seeing an expression of surprise on the woman's face.

"You'll have little time for such matters here. Come in and report
yourself to the keeper, and if you'll take my advice ask no questions of
him, for you'll get no answers."

"I seldom ask questions of men, as they are not fond of gossip." And the
boy nodded with a smile of mischievous significance as he entered the
keeper's lodge.

A sharp lad and a saucy, if he likes. I'll keep my eye on him, for my
lady takes no more thought of such things than a child, and Lillian
cares for nothing but her own will. He has a taking way with him,
though, and knows how to flatter. It's well he does, poor lad, for
life's a hard matter to a friendless soul like him.

As she thought these thoughts Hester went on to the house, leaving Paul
to win the good graces of the keeper, which he speedily did by assuming
an utterly different manner from that he had worn with the woman.

That night, when the boy was alone in his own room, he wrote a long
letter in Italian describing the events of the day, enclosed a sketch of
the falcon and motto, directed it to "Father Cosmo Carmela, Genoa," and
lay down to sleep, muttering, with a grim look and a heavy sigh, "So far
so well; I'll not let my heart be softened by pity, or my purpose change
till my promise is kept. Pretty child, I wish I had never seen her!"




Chapter III

SECRET SERVICE


In a week Paul was a favorite with the household; even prudent Hester
felt the charm of his presence, and owned that Lillian was happier for a
young companion in her walks. Hitherto the child had led a solitary
life, with no playmates of her own age, such being the will of my lady;
therefore she welcomed Paul as a new and delightful amusement,
considering him her private property and soon transferring his duties
from the garden to the house. Satisfied of his merits, my lady yielded
to Lillian's demands, and Paul was installed as page to the young lady.
Always respectful and obedient, he never forgot his place, yet seemed
unconsciously to influence all who approached him, and win the goodwill
of everyone.

My lady showed unusual interest in the lad, and Lillian openly displayed
her admiration for his accomplishments and her affection for her devoted
young servitor. Hester was much flattered by the confidence he reposed
in her, for to her alone did he tell his story, and of her alone asked
advice and comfort in his various small straits. It was as she
suspected: Paul was a gentleman's son, but misfortune had robbed him of
home, friends, and parents, and thrown him upon the world to shift for
himself. This sad story touched the woman's heart, and the boy's manly
spirit won respect. She had lost a son years ago, and her empty heart
yearned over the motherless lad. Ashamed to confess the tender feeling,
she wore her usual severe manner to him in public, but in private
softened wonderfully and enjoyed the boy's regard heartily.

"Paul, come in. I want to speak with you a moment," said my lady, from
the long window of the library to the boy who was training vines
outside.

Dropping his tools and pulling off his hat, Paul obeyed, looking a
little anxious, for the month of trial expired that day. Lady Trevlyn
saw and answered the look with a gracious smile.

"Have no fears. You are to stay if you will, for Lillian is happy and I
am satisfied with you."

"Thank you, my lady." And an odd glance of mingled pride and pain shone
in the boy's downcast eyes.

"That is settled, then. Now let me say what I called you in for. You
spoke of being able to illuminate on parchment. Can you restore this old
book for me?"

She put into his hand the ancient volume Sir Richard had been reading
the day he died. It had lain neglected in a damp nook for years till my
lady discovered it, and, sad as were the associations connected with it,
she desired to preserve it for the sake of the weird prophecy if nothing
else. Paul examined it, and as he turned it to and fro in his hands it
opened at the page oftenest read by its late master. His eye kindled as
he looked, and with a quick gesture he turned as if toward the light, in
truth to hide the flash of triumph that passed across his face.
Carefully controlling his voice, he answered in a moment, as he looked
up, quite composed, "Yes, my lady, I can retouch the faded colors on
these margins and darken the pale ink of the Old English text. I like
the work, and will gladly do it if you like."

"Do it, then, but be very careful of the book while in your hands.
Provide what is needful, and name your own price for the work," said his
mistress.

"Nay, my lady, I am already paid--"

"How so?" she asked, surprised.

Paul had spoken hastily, and for an instant looked embarrassed, but
answered with a sudden flush on his dark cheeks, "You have been kind to
me, and I am glad to show my, gratitude in any way, my lady."

"Let that pass, my boy. Do this little service for me and we will see
about the recompense afterward." And with a smile Lady Trevlyn left him
to begin his work.

The moment the door closed behind her a total change passed over Paul.
He shook his clenched hand after her with a gesture of menace, then
tossed up the old book and caught it with an exclamation of delight, as
he reopened it at the worn page and reread the inexplicable verse.

"Another proof, another proof! The work goes bravely on, Father Cosmo;
and boy as I am, I'll keep my word in spite of everything," he muttered.

"What is that you'll keep, lad?" said a voice behind him.

"I'll keep my word to my lady, and do my best to restore this book, Mrs.
Hester," he answered, quickly recovering himself.

"Ah, that's the last book poor Master read. I hid it away, but my lady
found it in spite of me," said Hester, with a doleful sigh.

"Did he die suddenly, then?" asked the boy.

"Dear heart, yes; I found him dying in this room with the ink scarce dry
on the letter he left for my lady. A mysterious business and a sad one."

"Tell me about it. I like sad stories, and I already feel as if I
belonged to the family, a loyal retainer as in the old times. While you
dust the books and I rub the mold off this old cover, tell me the tale,
please, Mrs. Hester."

She shook her head, but yielded to the persuasive look and tone of the
boy, telling the story more fully than she intended, for she loved
talking and had come to regard Paul as her own, almost.

"And the letter? What was in it?" asked the boy, as she paused at the
catastrophe.

"No one ever knew but my lady."

"She destroyed it, then?"

"I thought so, till a long time afterward, one of the lawyers came
pestering me with questions, and made me ask her. She was ill at the
time, but answered with a look I shall never forget, 'No, it's not
burnt, but no one shall ever see it.' I dared ask no more, but I fancy
she has it safe somewhere and if it's ever needed she'll bring it out.
It was only some private matters, I fancy."

"And the stranger?"

"Oh, he vanished as oddly as he came, and has never been found. A
strange story, lad. Keep silent, and let it rest."

"No fear of my tattling," and the boy smiled curiously to himself as he
bent over the book, polishing the brassbound cover.

"What are you doing with that pretty white wax?" asked Lillian the next
day, as she came upon Paul in a quiet corner of the garden and found him
absorbed in some mysterious occupation.

With a quick gesture he destroyed his work, and, banishing a momentary
expression of annoyance, he answered in his accustomed tone as he began
to work anew, "I am molding a little deer for you, Miss Lillian. See,
here is a rabbit already done, and I'll soon have a stag also."

"It's very pretty! How many nice things you can do, and how kind you are
to think of my liking something new. Was this wax what you went to get
this morning when you rode away so early?" asked the child.

"Yes, Miss Lillian. I was ordered to exercise your pony and I made him
useful as well. Would you like to try this? It's very easy."

Lillian was charmed, and for several days wax modeling was her favorite
play. Then she tired of it, and Paul invented a new amusement, smiling
his inexplicable smile as he threw away the broken toys of wax.

"You are getting pale and thin, keeping such late hours, Paul. Go to
bed, boy, go to bed, and get your sleep early," said Hester a week
afterward, with a motherly air, as Paul passed her one morning.

"And how do you know I don't go to bed?" he asked, wheeling about.

"My lady has been restless lately, and I sit up with her till she
sleeps. As I go to my room, I see your lamp burning, and last night I
got as far as your door, meaning to speak to you, but didn't, thinking
you'd take it amiss. But really you are the worse for late hours,
child."

"I shall soon finish restoring the book, and then I'll sleep. I hope I
don't disturb you. I have to grind my colors, and often make more noise
than I mean to."

Paul fixed his eyes sharply on the woman as he spoke, but she seemed
unconscious of it, and turned to go on, saying indifferently, "Oh,
that's the odd sound, is it? No, it doesn't trouble me, so grind away,
and make an end of it as soon as may be."

An anxious fold in the boy's forehead smoothed itself away as he left
her, saying to himself with a sigh of relief, "A narrow escape; it's
well I keep the door locked."

The boy's light burned no more after that, and Hester was content till a
new worry came to trouble her. On her way to her room late one night,
she saw a tall shadow flit down one of the side corridors that branched
from the main one. For a moment she was startled, but, being a woman of
courage, she followed noiselessly, till the shadow seemed to vanish in
the gloom of the great hall.

"If the house ever owned a ghost I'd say that's it, but it never did, so
I suspect some deviltry. I'll step to Paul. He's not asleep, I dare say.
He's a brave and a sensible lad, and with him I'll quietly search the
house."

Away she went, more nervous than she would own, and tapped at the boy's
door. No one answered, and, seeing that it was ajar, Hester whisked in
so hurriedly that her candle went out. With an impatient exclamation at
her carelessness she glided to the bed, drew the curtain, and put forth
her hand to touch the sleeper. The bed was empty. A disagreeable thrill
shot through her, as she assured herself of the fact by groping along
the narrow bed. Standing in the shadow of the curtain, she stared about
the dusky room, in which objects were visible by the light of a new
moon.

"Lord bless me, what is the boy about! I do believe it was him I saw in
the--" She got no further in her mental exclamation for the sound of
light approaching footsteps neared her. Slipping around the bed she
waited in the shadow, and a moment after Paul appeared, looking pale and
ghostly, with dark, disheveled hair, wide-open eyes, and a cloak thrown
over his shoulders. Without a pause he flung it off, laid himself in
bed, and seemed to sleep at once.

"Paul! Paul!" whispered Hester, shaking him, after a pause of
astonishment at the whole proceeding.

"Hey, what is it?" And he sat up, looking drowsily about him.

"Come, come, no tricks, boy. What are you doing, trailing about the
house at this hour and in such trim?"

"Why, Hester, is it you?" he exclaimed with a laugh, as he shook off her
grip and looked up at her in surprise.

"Yes, and well it is me. If it had been any of those silly girls, the
house would have been roused by this time. What mischief is afoot that
you leave your bed and play ghost in this wild fashion?"

"Leave my bed! Why, my good soul, I haven't stirred, but have been
dreaming with all my might these two hours. What do you mean, Hester?"

She told him as she relit her lamp, and stood eyeing him sharply the
while. When she finished he was silent a minute, then said, looking half
vexed and half ashamed, "I see how it is, and I'm glad you alone have
found me out. I walk in my sleep sometimes, Hester, that's the truth. I
thought I'd got over it, but it's come back, you see, and I'm sorry for
it. Don't be troubled. I never do any mischief or come to any harm. I
just take a quiet promenade and march back to bed again. Did I frighten
you?"

"Just a trifle, but it's nothing. Poor lad, you'll have to have a
bedfellow or be locked up; it's dangerous to go roaming about in this
way," said Hester anxiously.

"It won't last long, for I'll get more tired and then I shall sleep
sounder. Don't tell anyone, please, else they'll laugh at me, and that's
not pleasant. I don't mind your knowing for you seem almost like a
mother, and I thank you for it with all my heart."

He held out his hand with the look that was irresistible to Hester.
Remembering only that he was a motherless boy, she stroked the curly
hair off his forehead, and kissed him, with the thought of her own son
warm at her heart.

"Good night, dear. I'll say nothing, but give you something that will
ensure quiet sleep hereafter."

With that she left him, but would have been annoyed could she have seen
the convulsion of boyish merriment which took possession of him when
alone, for he laughed till the tears ran down his cheeks.




Chapter IV

VANISHED


He's a handsome lad, and one any woman might be proud to call her son,"
said Hester to Bedford, the stately butler, as they lingered at the hall
door one autumn morning to watch their young lady's departure on her
daily ride.

"You are right, Mrs. Hester, he's a fine lad, and yet he seems above his
place, though he does look the very picture of a lady's groom," replied
Bedford approvingly.

So he did, as he stood holding the white pony of his little mistress,
for the boy gave an air to whatever he wore and looked like a gentleman
even in his livery. The dark-blue coat with silver buttons, the silver
band about his hat, his white-topped boots and bright spurs, spotless
gloves, and tightly drawn belt were all in perfect order, all becoming,
and his handsome, dark face caused many a susceptible maid to blush and
simper as they passed him. "Gentleman Paul," as the servants called him,
was rather lofty and reserved among his mates, but they liked him
nonetheless, for Hester had dropped hints of his story and quite a
little romance had sprung up about him. He stood leaning against the
docile creature, sunk in thought, and quite unconscious of the watchers
and whisperers close by. But as Lillian appeared he woke up, attended to
his duties like a well-trained groom, and lingered over his task as if
he liked it. Down the avenue he rode behind her, but as they turned into
a shady lane Lillian beckoned, saying, in the imperious tone habitual to
her, "Ride near me. I wish to talk."

Paul obeyed, and amused her with the chat she liked till they reached a
hazel copse; here he drew rein, and, leaping down, gathered a handful of
ripe nuts for her.

"How nice. Let us rest a minute here, and while I eat a few, please pull
some of those flowers for Mamma. She likes a wild nosegay better than
any I can bring her from the garden."

Lillian ate her nuts till Paul came to her with a hatful of late flowers
and, standing by her, held the impromptu basket while she made up a
bouquet to suit her taste.

"You shall have a posy, too; I like you to wear one in your buttonhole
as the ladies' grooms do in the Park," said the child, settling a
scarlet poppy in the blue coat.

"Thanks, Miss Lillian, I'll wear your colors with all my heart,
especially today, for it is my birthday." And Paul looked up at the
blooming little face with unusual softness in his keen blue eyes.

"Is it? Why, then, you're seventeen; almost a man, aren't you?"

"Yes, thank heaven," muttered the boy, half to himself.

"I wish I was as old. I shan't be in my teens till autumn. I must give
you something, Paul, because I like you very much, and you are always
doing kind things for me. What shall it be?" And the child held out her
hand with a cordial look and gesture that touched the boy.

With one of the foreign fashions which sometimes appeared when he forgot
himself, he kissed the small hand, saying impulsively, "My dear little
mistress, I want nothing but your goodwill--and your forgiveness," he
added, under his breath.

"You have that already, Paul, and I shall find something to add to it.
But what is that?" And she laid hold of a little locket which had
slipped into sight as Paul bent forward in his salute.

He thrust it back, coloring so deeply that the child observed it, and
exclaimed, with a mischievous laugh, "It is your sweetheart, Paul. I
heard Bessy, my maid, tell Hester she was sure you had one because you
took no notice of them. Let me see it. Is she pretty?"

"Very pretty," answered the boy, without showing the picture.

"Do you like her very much?" questioned Lillian, getting interested in
the little romance.

"Very much," and Paul's black eyelashes fell.

"Would you die for her, as they say in the old songs?" asked the girl,
melodramatically.

"Yes, Miss Lillian, or live for her, which is harder."

"Dear me, how very nice it must be to have anyone care for one so much,"
said the child innocently. "I wonder if anybody ever will for me?"

  " Love comes to all soon or late,
    And maketh gay or sad;
  For every bird will find its mate,
    And every lass a lad, "

sang Paul, quoting one of Hester's songs, and looking relieved that
Lillian's thoughts had strayed from him. But he was mistaken.

"Shall you marry this sweetheart of yours someday?" asked Lillian,
turning to him with a curious yet wistful look.

"Perhaps."

"You look as if there was no 'perhaps' about it," said the child, quick
to read the kindling of the eye and the change in the voice that
accompanied the boy's reply.

"She is very young and I must wait, and while I wait many things may
happen to part us."

"Is she a lady?"

"Yes, a wellborn, lovely little lady, and I'll marry her if I live."
Paul spoke with a look of decision, and a proud lift of the head that
contrasted curiously with the badge of servitude he wore.

Lillian felt this, and asked, with a sudden shyness coming over her,
"But you are a gentleman, and so no one will mind even if you are not
rich."

"How do you know what I am?" he asked quickly.

"I heard Hester tell the housekeeper that you were not what you seemed,
and one day she hoped you'd get your right place again. I asked Mamma
about it, and she said she would not let me be with you so much if you
were not a fit companion for me. I was not to speak of it, but she means
to be your friend and help you by-and-by."

"Does she?"

And the boy laughed an odd, short laugh that jarred on Lillian's ear and
made her say reprovingly, "You are proud, I know, but you'll let us help
you because we like to do it, and I have no brother to share my money
with."

"Would you like one, or a sister?" asked Paul, looking straight into her
face with his piercing eyes.

"Yes, indeed! I long for someone to be with me and love me, as Mamma
can't."

"Would you be willing to share everything with another person--perhaps
have to give them a great many things you like and now have all to
yourself?"

"I think I should. I'm selfish, I know, because everyone pets and spoils
me, but if I loved a person dearly I'd give up anything to them. Indeed
I would, Paul, pray believe me."

She spoke earnestly, and leaned on his shoulder as if to enforce her
words. The boy's arm stole around the little figure in the saddle, and a
beautiful bright smile broke over his face as he answered warmly, "I do
believe it, dear, and it makes me happy to hear you say so. Don't be
afraid, I'm your equal, but I'll not forget that you are my little
mistress till I can change from groom to gentleman."

He added the last sentence as he withdrew his arm, for Lillian had
shrunk a little and blushed with surprise, not anger, at this first
breach of respect on the part of her companion. Both were silent for a
moment, Paul looking down and Lillian busy with her nosegay. She spoke
first, assuming an air of satisfaction as she surveyed her work.

"That will please Mamma, I'm sure, and make her quite forget my naughty
prank of yesterday. Do you know I offended her dreadfully by peeping
into the gold case she wears on her neck? She was asleep and I was
sitting by her. In her sleep she pulled it out and said something about
a letter and Papa. I wanted to see Papa's face, for I never did, because
the big picture of him is gone from the gallery where the others are, so
I peeped into the case when she let it drop and was so disappointed to
find nothing but a key."

"A key! What sort of a key?" cried Paul in an eager tone.

"Oh, a little silver one like the key of my piano, or the black cabinet.
She woke and was very angry to find me meddling."

"What did it belong to?" asked Paul.

"Her treasure box, she said, but I don't know where or what that is, and
I dare not ask any more, for she forbade my speaking to her about it.
Poor Mamma! I'm always troubling her in some way or other."

With a penitent sigh, Lillian tied up her flowers and handed them to
Paul to carry. As she did so, the change in his face struck her.

"How grim and old you look," she exclaimed. "Have I said anything that
troubles you?"

"No, Miss Lillian. I'm only thinking."

"Then I wish you wouldn't think, for you get a great wrinkle in your
forehead, your eyes grow almost black, and your mouth looks fierce. You
are a very odd person, Paul; one minute as gay as any boy, and the next
as grave and stern as a man with a deal of work to do."

"I  have  got a deal of work to do, so no wonder I look old and grim."

"What work, Paul?"

"To make my fortune and win my lady."

When Paul spoke in that tone and wore that look, Lillian felt as if they
had changed places, and he was the master and she the servant. She
wondered over this in her childish mind, but proud and willful as she
was, she liked it, and obeyed him with unusual meekness when he
suggested that it was time to return. As he rode silently beside her,
she stole covert glances at him from under her wide hat brim, and
studied his unconscious face as she had never done before. His lips
moved now and then but uttered no audible sound, his black brows were
knit, and once his hand went to his breast as if he thought of the
little sweetheart whose picture lay there.

He's got a trouble. I wish he'd tell me and let me help him if I can.
I'll make him show me that miniature someday, for I'm interested in that
girl, thought Lillian with a pensive sigh.

As he held his hand for her little foot in dismounting her at the hall
door, Paul seemed to have shaken off his grave mood, for he looked up
and smiled at her with his blithest expression. But Lillian appeared to
be the thoughtful one now and with an air of dignity, very pretty and
becoming, thanked her young squire in a stately manner and swept into
the house, looking tall and womanly in her flowing skirts.

Paul laughed as he glanced after her and, flinging himself onto his
horse, rode away to the stables at a reckless pace, as if to work off
some emotion for which he could find no other vent.

"Here's a letter for you, lad, all the way from some place in Italy. Who
do you know there?" said Bedford, as the boy came back.

With a hasty "Thank you," Paul caught the letter and darted away to his
own room, there to tear it open and, after reading a single line, to
drop into a chair as if he had received a sudden blow. Growing paler and
paler he read on, and when the letter fell from his hands he exclaimed,
in a tone of despair, "How could he die at such a time!"

For an hour the boy sat thinking intently, with locked door, curtained
window, and several papers strewn before him. Letters, memoranda, plans,
drawings, and bits of parchment, all of which he took from a small
locked portfolio always worn about him. Over these he pored with a face
in which hope, despondency, resolve, and regret alternated rapidly.
Taking the locket out he examined a ring which lay in one side, and the
childish face which smiled on him from the other. His eyes filled as he
locked and put it by, saying tenderly, "Dear little heart! I'll not
forget or desert her whatever happens. Time must help me, and to time I
must leave my work. One more attempt and then I'm off."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'll go to bed now, Hester; but while you get my things ready I'll take
a turn in the corridor. The air will refresh me."

As she spoke, Lady Trevlyn drew her wrapper about her and paced softly
down the long hall lighted only by fitful gleams of moonlight and the
ruddy glow of the fire. At the far end was the state chamber, never used
now, and never visited except by Hester, who occasionally went in to
dust and air it, and my lady, who always passed the anniversary of Sir
Richard's death alone there. The gallery was very dark, and she seldom
went farther than the last window in her restless walks, but as she now
approached she was startled to see a streak of yellow light under the
door. She kept the key herself and neither she nor Hester had been there
that day. A cold shiver passed over her for, as she looked, the shadow
of a foot darkened the light for a moment and vanished as if someone had
noiselessly passed. Obeying a sudden impulse, my lady sprang forward and
tried to open the door. It was locked, but as her hand turned the silver
knob a sound as if a drawer softly closed met her ear. She stooped to
the keyhole but it was dark, a key evidently being in the lock. She drew
back and flew to her room, snatched the key from her dressing table,
and, bidding Hester follow, returned to the hall.

"What is it, my lady?" cried the woman, alarmed at the agitation of her
mistress.

"A light, a sound, a shadow in the state chamber. Come quick!" cried
Lady Trevlyn, adding, as she pointed to the door, "There, there, the
light shines underneath. Do you see it?"

"No, my lady, it's dark," returned Hester.

It was, but never pausing my lady thrust in the key, and to her surprise
it turned, the door flew open, and the dim, still room was before them.
Hester boldly entered, and while her mistress slowly followed, she
searched the room, looking behind the tall screen by the hearth, up the
wide chimney, in the great wardrobe, and under the ebony cabinet, where
all the relics of Sir Richard were kept. Nothing appeared, not even a
mouse, and Hester turned to my lady with an air of relief. But her
mistress pointed to the bed shrouded in dark velvet hangings, and
whispered breathlessly, "You forgot to look there."

Hester had not forgotten, but in spite of her courage and good sense she
shrank a little from looking at the spot where she had last seen her
master's dead face. She believed the light and sound to be phantoms of
my lady's distempered fancy, and searched merely to satisfy her. The
mystery of Sir Richard's death still haunted the minds of all who
remembered it, and even Hester felt a superstitious dread of that room.
With a nervous laugh she looked under the bed and, drawing back the
heavy curtains, said soothingly, "You see, my lady, there's nothing
there."

But the words died on her lips, for, as the pale glimmer of the candle
pierced the gloom of that funeral couch, both saw a face upon the
pillow: a pale face framed in dark hair and beard, with closed eyes and
the stony look the dead wear. A loud, long shriek that roused the house
broke from Lady Trevlyn as she fell senseless at the bedside, and
dropping both curtain and candle Hester caught up her mistress and fled
from the haunted room, locking the door behind her.

In a moment a dozen servants were about them, and into their astonished
ears Hester poured her story while vainly trying to restore her lady.
Great was the dismay and intense the unwillingness of anyone to obey
when Hester ordered the men to search the room again, for she was the
first to regain her self-possession.

"Where's Paul? He's the heart of a man, boy though he is," she said
angrily as the men hung back.

"He's not here. Lord! Maybe it was him a-playing tricks, though it ain't
like him," cried Bessy, Lillian's little maid.

"No, it can't be him, for I locked him in myself. He walks in his sleep
sometimes, and I was afraid he'd startle my lady. Let him sleep; this
would only excite him and set him to marching again. Follow me, Bedford
and James, I'm not afraid of ghosts or rogues."

With a face that belied her words Hester led the way to the awful room,
and flinging back the curtain resolutely looked in. The bed was empty,
but on the pillow was plainly visible the mark of a head and a single
scarlet stain, as of blood. At that sight Hester turned pale and caught
the butler's arm, whispering with a shudder, "Do you remember the night
we put him in his coffin, the drop of blood that fell from his white
lips? Sir Richard has been here."

"Good Lord, ma'am, don't say that! We can never rest in our beds if such
things are to happen," gasped Bedford, backing to the door.

"It's no use to look, we've found all we shall find so go your ways and
tell no one of this," said the woman in a gloomy tone, and, having
assured herself that the windows were fast, Hester locked the room and
ordered everyone but Bedford and the housekeeper to bed. "Do you sit
outside my lady's door till morning," she said to the butler, "and you,
Mrs. Price, help me to tend my poor lady, for if I'm not mistaken this
night's work will bring on the old trouble."

Morning came, and with it a new alarm; for, though his door was fast
locked and no foothold for even a sparrow outside the window, Paul's
room was empty, and the boy nowhere to be found.




Chapter V

A HERO


Four years had passed, and Lillian was fast blooming into a lovely
woman: proud and willful as ever, but very charming, and already a belle
in the little world where she still reigned a queen. Owing to her
mother's ill health, she was allowed more freedom than is usually
permitted to an English girl of her age; and, during the season, often
went into company with a friend of Lady Trevlyn's who was chaperoning
two young daughters of her own. To the world Lillian seemed a gay,
free-hearted girl; and no one, not even her mother, knew how well she
remembered and how much she missed the lost Paul. No tidings of him had
ever come, and no trace of him was found after his flight. Nothing was
missed, he went without his wages, and no reason could be divined for
his departure except the foreign letter. Bedford remembered it, but
forgot what postmark it bore, for he had only been able to decipher
"Italy." My lady made many inquiries and often spoke of him; but when
month after month passed and no news came, she gave him up, and on
Lillian's account feigned to forget him. Contrary to Hester's fear, she
did not seem the worse for the nocturnal fright, but evidently connected
the strange visitor with Paul, or, after a day or two of nervous
exhaustion, returned to her usual state of health. Hester had her own
misgivings, but, being forbidden to allude to the subject, she held her
peace, after emphatically declaring that Paul would yet appear to set
her mind at rest.

"Lillian, Lillian, I've such news for you! Come and hear a charming
little romance, and prepare to see the hero of it!" cried Maud
Churchill, rushing into her friend's pretty boudoir one day in the
height of the season.

Lillian lay on a couch, rather languid after a ball, and listlessly
begged Maud to tell her story, for she was dying to be amused.

"Well my, dear, just listen and you'll be as enthusiastic as I am,"
cried Maud. And throwing her bonnet on one chair, her parasol on
another, and her gloves anywhere, she settled herself on the couch and
began: "You remember reading in the papers, some time ago, that fine
account of the young man who took part in the Italian revolution and did
that heroic thing with the bombshell?"

"Yes, what of him?" asked Lillian, sitting up.

"He is my hero, and we are to see him tonight."

"Go on, go on! Tell all, and tell it quickly," she cried.

"You know the officers were sitting somewhere, holding a council, while
the city (I forget the name) was being bombarded, and how a shell came
into the midst of them, how they sat paralyzed, expecting it to burst,
and how this young man caught it up and ran out with it, risking his own
life to save theirs?"

"Yes, yes, I remember!" And Lillian's listless face kindled at the
recollection.

"Well, an Englishman who was there was so charmed by the act that,
finding the young man was poor and an orphan, he adopted him. Mr. Talbot
was old, and lonely, and rich, and when he died, a year after, he left
his name and fortune to this Paolo."

"I'm glad, I'm glad!" cried Lillian, clapping her hands with a joyful
face. "How romantic and charming it is!"

"Isn't it? But, my dear creature, the most romantic part is to come.
Young Talbot served in the war, and then came to England to take
possession of his property. It's somewhere down in Kent, a fine place
and good income, all his; and he deserves it. Mamma heard a deal about
him from Mrs. Langdon, who knew old Talbot and has seen the young man.
Of course all the girls are wild to behold him, for he is very handsome
and accomplished, and a gentleman by birth. But the dreadful part is
that he is already betrothed to a lovely Greek girl, who came over at
the same time, and is living in London with a companion; quite
elegantly, Mrs. Langdon says, for she called and was charmed.
This girl has been seen by some of our gentlemen friends, and they
already rave about the 'fair Helene,' for that's her name."

Here Maud was forced to stop for breath, and Lillian had a chance to
question her.

"How old is she?"

"About eighteen or nineteen, they say."

"Very pretty?"

"Ravishing, regularly Greek and divine, Fred Raleigh says."

"When is she to be married?"

"Don't know; when Talbot gets settled, I fancy."

"And he? Is he as charming as she?"

"Quite, I'm told. He's just of age, and is, in appearance as in
everything else, a hero of romance."

"How came your mother to secure him for tonight?"

"Mrs. Langdon is dying to make a lion of him, and begged to bring him.
He is very indifferent on such things and seems intent on his own
affairs. Is grave and old for his years, and doesn't seem to care much
for pleasure and admiration, as most men would after a youth like his,
for he has had a hard time, I believe. For a wonder, he consented to
come when Mrs. Langdon asked him, and I flew off at once to tell you and
secure you for tonight."

"A thousand thanks. I meant to rest, for Mamma frets about my being so
gay; but she won't object to a quiet evening with you. What shall we
wear?" And here the conversation branched off on the all-absorbing topic
of dress.

When Lillian joined her friend that evening, the hero had already
arrived, and, stepping into a recess, she waited to catch a glimpse of
him. Maud was called away, and she was alone when the crowd about the
inner room thinned and permitted young Talbot to be seen. Well for
Lillian that no one observed her at that moment, for she grew pale and
sank into a chair, exclaiming below her breath, "It is Paul-- my  Paul!"

She recognized him instantly, in spite of increased height, a dark
moustache, and martial bearing. It was Paul, older, graver, handsomer,
but still "her Paul," as she called him, with a flush of pride and
delight as she watched him, and felt that of all there she knew him best
and loved him most. For the childish affection still existed, and this
discovery added a tinge of romance that made it doubly dangerous as well
as doubly pleasant.

Will he know me? she thought, glancing at a mirror which reflected a
slender figure with bright hair, white arms, and brilliant eyes; a
graceful little head, proudly carried, and a sweet mouth, just then very
charming, as it smiled till pearly teeth shone between the ruddy lips.

I'm glad I'm not ugly, and I hope he'll like me, she thought, as she
smoothed the golden ripples on her forehead, settled her sash, and shook
out the folds of her airy dress in a flutter of girlish excitement.
"I'll pretend not to know him, when we meet, and see what he will do,"
she said, with a wicked sense of power; for being forewarned she was
forearmed, and, fearing no betrayal of surprise on her own part, was
eager to enjoy any of which he might be guilty.

Leaving her nook, she joined a group of young friends and held herself
prepared for the meeting. Presently she saw Maud and Mrs. Langdon
approaching, evidently intent on presenting the hero to the heiress.

"Mr. Talbot, Miss Trevlyn," said the lady. And looking up with a
well-assumed air of indifference, Lillian returned the gentleman's bow
with her eyes fixed full upon his face.

Not a feature of that face changed, and so severely unconscious of any
recognition was it that the girl was bewildered. For a moment she
fancied she had been mistaken in his identity, and a pang of
disappointment troubled her; but as he moved a chair for Maud, she saw
on the one ungloved hand a little scar which she remembered well, for he
received it in saving her from a dangerous fall. At the sight all the
happy past rose before her, and if her telltale eyes had not been
averted they would have betrayed her. A sudden flush of maidenly shame
dyed her cheek as she remembered that last ride, and the childish
confidences then interchanged. This Helen was the little sweetheart
whose picture he wore, and now, in spite of all obstacles, he had won
both fortune and ladylove. The sound of his voice recalled her thoughts,
and glancing up she met the deep eyes fixed on her with the same steady
look they used to wear. He had addressed her, but what he said she knew
not, beyond a vague idea that it was some slight allusion to the music
going on in the next room. With a smile which would serve for an answer
to almost any remark, she hastily plunged into conversation with a
composure that did her credit in the eyes of her friends, who stood in
awe of the young hero, for all were but just out.

"Mr. Talbot hardly needs an introduction here, for his name is
well-known among us, though this is perhaps his first visit to England?"
she said, flattering herself that this artful speech would entrap him
into the reply she wanted.

With a slight frown, as if the allusion to his adventure rather annoyed
him, and a smile that puzzled all but Lillian, he answered very simply,
"It is not my first visit to this hospitable island. I was here a few
years ago, for a short time, and left with regret."

"Then you have old friends here?" And Lillian watched him as she spoke.

"I had. They had doubtless forgotten me now," he said, with a sudden
shadow marring the tranquillity of his face.

"Why doubt them? If they were true friends, they will not forget."

The words were uttered impulsively, almost warmly, but Talbot made no
response, except a polite inclination and an abrupt change in the
conversation.

"That remains to be proved. Do you sing, Miss Trevlyn?"

"A little." And Lillian's tone was both cold and proud.

"A great deal, and very charmingly," added Maud, who took pride in her
friend's gifts both of voice and beauty. "Come, dear, there are so few
of us you will sing, I know. Mamma desired me to ask you when Edith had
done."

To her surprise Lillian complied, and allowed Talbot to lead her to the
instrument. Still hoping to win some sign of recognition from him, the
girl chose an air he taught her and sang it with a spirit and skill that
surprised the listeners who possessed no key to her mood. At the last
verse her voice suddenly faltered, but Talbot took up the song and
carried her safely through it with his well-tuned voice.

"You know the air then?" she said in a low tone, as a hum of
commendation followed the music.

"All Italians sing it, though few do it like yourself," he answered
quietly, restoring the fan he had held while standing beside her.

Provoking boy! why won't he know me? thought Lillian. And her tone was
almost petulant as she refused to sing again.

Talbot offered his arm and led her to a seat, behind which stood a
little statuette of a child holding a fawn by a daisy chain.

"Pretty, isn't it?" she said, as he paused to look at it instead of
taking the chair before her. "I used to enjoy modeling tiny deer and
hinds in wax, as well as making daisy chains. Is sculpture among the
many accomplishments which rumor tells us you possess?"

"No. Those who, like me, have their own fortunes to mold find time for
little else," he answered gravely, still examining the marble group.

Lillian broke her fan with an angry flirt, for she was tired of her
trial, and wished she had openly greeted him at the beginning; feeling
now how pleasant it would have been to sit chatting of old times, while
her friends dared hardly address him at all. She was on the point of
calling him by his former name, when the remembrance of what he had been
arrested the words on her lips. He was proud; would he not dread to have
it known that, in his days of adversity, he had been a servant? For if
she betrayed her knowledge of his past, she would be forced to tell
where and how that knowledge was gained. No, better wait till they met
alone, she thought; he would thank her for her delicacy, and she could
easily explain her motive. He evidently wished to seem a stranger, for
once she caught a gleam of the old, mirthful mischief in his eye, as she
glanced up unexpectedly. He did remember her, she was sure, yet was
trying her, perhaps, as she tried him. Well, she would stand the test
and enjoy the joke by-and-by. With this fancy in her head she assumed a
gracious air and chatted away in her most charming style, feeling both
gay and excited, so anxious was she to please, and so glad to recover
her early friend. A naughty whim seized her as her eye fell on a
portfolio of classical engravings which someone had left in disorder on
a table near her. Tossing them over she asked his opinion of several,
and then handed him one in which Helen of Troy was represented as giving
her hand to the irresistible Paris.

"Do you think her worth so much bloodshed, and deserving so much
praise?" she asked, vainly trying to conceal the significant smile that
would break loose on her lips and sparkle in her eyes.

Talbot laughed the short, boyish laugh so familiar to her ears, as he
glanced from the picture to the arch questioner, and answered in a tone
that made her heart beat with a nameless pain and pleasure, so full of
suppressed ardor was it:

"Yes! 'All for love or the world well lost' is a saying I heartily agree
to. La belle Helene is my favorite heroine, and I regard Paris as the
most enviable of men."

"I should like to see her."

The wish broke from Lillian involuntarily, and she was too much confused
to turn it off by any general expression of interest in the classical
lady.

"You may sometime," answered Talbot, with an air of amusement; adding,
as if to relieve her, "I have a poetical belief that all the lovely
women of history or romance will meet, and know, and love each other in
some charming hereafter."

"But I'm no heroine and no beauty, so I shall never enter your poetical
paradise," said Lillian, with a pretty affectation of regret.

"Some women are beauties without knowing it, and the heroines of
romances never given to the world. I think you and Helen will yet meet,
Miss Trevlyn."

As he spoke, Mrs. Langdon beckoned, and he left her pondering over his
last words, and conscious of a secret satisfaction in his implied
promise that she should see his betrothed.

"How do you like him?" whispered Maud, slipping into the empty chair.

"Very well," was the composed reply; for Lillian enjoyed her little
mystery too much to spoil it yet.

"What did you say to him? I longed to hear, for you seemed to enjoy
yourselves very much, but I didn't like to be a marplot."

Lillian repeated a part of the conversation, and Maud professed to be
consumed with jealousy at the impression her friend had evidently made.

"It is folly to try to win the hero, for he is already won, you know,"
answered Lillian, shutting the cover on the pictured Helen with a sudden
motion as if glad to extinguish her.

"Oh dear, no; Mrs. Langdon just told Mamma that she was mistaken about
their being engaged; for she asked him and he shook his head, saying
Helen was his ward."

"But that is absurd, for he's only a boy himself. It's very odd, isn't
it? Never mind, I shall soon know all about it."

"How?" cried Maud, amazed at Lillian's assured manner.

"Wait a day or two and, I'll tell you a romance in return for yours.
Your mother beckons to me, so I know Hester has come. Good night. I've
had a charming time."

And with this tantalizing adieu, Lillian slipped away. Hester was
waiting in the carriage, but as Lillian appeared, Talbot put aside the
footman and handed her in, saying very low, in the well-remembered tone:

"Good night, my little mistress."




Chapter VI

FAIR HELEN


To no one but her mother and Hester did Lillian confide the discovery
she had made. None of the former servants but old Bedford remained with
them, and till Paul chose to renew the old friendship it was best to
remain silent. Great was the surprise and delight of our lady and Hester
at the good fortune of their protege, and many the conjectures as to how
he would explain his hasty flight.

"You will go and see him, won't you, Mamma, or at least inquire about
him?" said Lillian, eager to assure the wanderer of a welcome, for those
few words of his had satisfied her entirely.

"No, dear, it is for him to seek us, and till he does, I shall make no
sign. He knows where we are, and if he chooses he can renew the
acquaintance so strangely broken off. Be patient, and above all things
remember, Lillian, that you are no longer a child," replied my lady,
rather disturbed by her daughter's enthusiastic praises of Paul.

"I wish I was, for then I might act as I feel, and not be afraid of
shocking the proprieties." And Lillian went to bed to dream of her hero.

For three days she stayed at home, expecting Paul, but he did not come,
and she went out for her usual ride in the Park, hoping to meet him. An
elderly groom now rode behind her, and she surveyed him with extreme
disgust, as she remembered the handsome lad who had once filled that
place. Nowhere did Paul appear, but in the Ladies' Mile she passed an
elegant brougham in which sat a very lovely girl and a mild old lady.

"That is Talbot's fiancee," said Maud Churchill, who had joined her.
"Isn't she beautiful?"

"Not at all--yes, very," was Lillian's somewhat peculiar reply, for
jealousy and truth had a conflict just then. "He's so perfectly absorbed
and devoted that I am sure that story is true, so adieu to our hopes,"
laughed Maud.

"Did you have any? Good-bye, I must go." And Lillian rode home at a pace
which caused the stout groom great distress.

"Mamma, I've seen Paul's betrothed!" she cried, running into her
mother's boudoir.

"And I have seen Paul himself," replied my lady, with a warning look,
for there he stood, with half-extended hand, as if waiting to be
acknowledged.

Lillian forgot her embarrassment in her pleasure, and made him an
elaborate curtsy, saying, with a half-merry, half-reproachful glance,
"Mr. Talbot is welcome in whatever guise he appears."

"I choose to appear as Paul, then, and offer you a seat, Miss Lillian,"
he said, assuming as much of his boyish manner as he could.

Lillian took it and tried to feel at ease, but the difference between
the lad she remembered and the man she now saw was too great to be
forgotten.

"Now tell us your adventures, and why you vanished away so mysteriously
four years ago," she said, with a touch of the childish imperiousness in
her voice, though her frank eyes fell before his.

"I was about to do so when you appeared with news concerning my cousin,"
he began.

"Your cousin!" exclaimed Lillian.

"Yes, Helen's mother and my own were sisters. Both married Englishmen,
both died young, leaving us to care for each other. We were like a
brother and sister, and always together till I left her to serve Colonel
Daventry. The death of the old priest to whom I entrusted her recalled
me to Genoa, for I was then her only guardian. I meant to have taken
leave of you, my lady, properly, but the consequences of that foolish
trick of mine frightened me away in the most unmannerly fashion."

"Ah, it was you, then, in the state chamber; I always thought so," and
Lady Trevlyn drew a long breath of relief.

"Yes, I heard it whispered among the servants that the room was haunted,
and I felt a wish to prove the truth of the story and my own courage.
Hester locked me in, for fear of my sleepwalking; but I lowered myself
by a rope and then climbed in at the closet window of the state chamber.
When you came, my lady, I thought it was Hester, and slipped into the
bed, meaning to give her a fright in return for her turning the key on
me. But when your cry showed me what I had done, I was filled with
remorse, and escaped as quickly and quietly as possible. I should have
asked pardon before; I do now, most humbly, my lady, for it was
sacrilege to play pranks  there ."

During the first part of his story Paul's manner had been frank and
composed, but in telling the latter part, his demeanor underwent a
curious change. He fixed his eyes on the ground and spoke as if
repeating a lesson, while his color varied, and a half-proud,
half-submissive expression replaced the former candid one. Lillian
observed this, and it disturbed her, but my lady took it for shame at
his boyish freak and received his confession kindly, granting a free
pardon and expressing sincere pleasure at his amended fortunes. As he
listened, Lillian saw him clench his hand hard and knit his brows,
assuming the grim look she had often seen, as if trying to steel himself
against some importunate emotion or rebellious thought.

"Yes, half my work is done, and I have a home, thanks to my generous
benefactor, and I hope to enjoy it well and wisely," he said in a grave
tone, as if the fortune had not yet brought him his heart's desire.

"And when is the other half of the work to be accomplished, Paul? That
depends on your cousin, perhaps." And Lady Trevlyn regarded him with a
gleam of womanly curiosity in her melancholy eyes.

"It does, but not in the way you fancy, my lady. Whatever Helen may be,
she is not my fiancee yet, Miss Lillian." And the shadow lifted as he
laughed, looking at the young lady, who was decidedly abashed, in spite
of a sense of relief caused by his words.

"I merely accepted the world's report," she said, affecting a nonchalant
air.

"The world is a liar, as you will find in time" was his abrupt reply.

"I hope to see this beautiful cousin, Paul. Will she receive us as old
friends of yours?"

"Thanks, not yet, my lady. She is still too much a stranger here to
enjoy new faces, even kind ones. I have promised perfect rest and
freedom for a time, but you shall be the first whom she receives."

Again Lillian detected the secret disquiet which possessed him, and her
curiosity was roused. It piqued her that this Helen felt no desire to
meet her and chose to seclude herself, as if regardless of the interest
and admiration she excited. "I  will  see her in spite of her refusal,
for I only caught a glimpse in the Park. Something is wrong, and I'll
discover it, for it evidently worries Paul, and perhaps I can help him."

As this purpose sprang up in the warm but willful heart of the girl, she
regained her spirits and was her most charming self while the young man
stayed. They talked of many things in a pleasant, confidential manner,
though when Lillian recalled that hour, she was surprised to find how
little Paul had really told them of his past life or future plans. It
was agreed among them to say nothing of their former relations, except
to old Bedford, who was discretion itself, but to appear to the world as
new-made friends--thus avoiding unpleasant and unnecessary explanations
which would only excite gossip. My lady asked him to dine, but he had
business out of town and declined, taking his leave with a lingering
look, which made Lillian steal away to study her face in the mirror and
wonder if she looked her best, for in Paul's eyes she had read
undisguised admiration.

Lady Trevlyn went to her room to rest, leaving the girl free to ride,
drive, or amuse herself as she liked. As if fearing her courage would
fail if she delayed, Lillian ordered the carriage, and, bidding Hester
mount guard over her, she drove away to St. John's Wood.

"Now, Hester, don't lecture or be prim when I tell you that we are going
on a frolic," she began, after getting the old woman into an amiable
mood by every winning wile she could devise. "I think you'll like it,
and if it's found out I'll take the blame. There is some mystery about
Paul's cousin, and I'm going to find it out."

"Bless you, child, how?"

"She lives alone here, is seldom seen, and won't go anywhere or receive
anyone. That's not natural in a pretty girl. Paul won't talk about her,
and, though he's fond of her, he always looks grave and grim when I ask
questions. That's provoking, and I won't hear it. Maud is engaged to
Raleigh, you know; well, he confided to her that he and a friend had
found out where Helen was, had gone to the next villa, which is empty,
and under pretense of looking at it got a peep at the girl in her
garden. I'm going to do the same."

"And what am  I  to do?" asked Hester, secretly relishing the prank,
for she was dying with curiosity to behold Paul's cousin.

"You are to do the talking with the old woman, and give me a chance to
look. Now say you will, and I'll behave myself like an angel in return."

Hester yielded, after a few discreet scruples, and when they reached
Laburnum Lodge played her part so well that Lillian soon managed to
stray away into one of the upper rooms which overlooked the neighboring
garden. Helen was there, and with eager eyes the girl scrutinized her.
She was very beautiful, in the classical style; as fair and finely
molded as a statue, with magnificent dark hair and eyes, and possessed
of that perfect grace which is as effective as beauty. She was alone,
and when first seen was bending over a flower which she caressed and
seemed to examine with great interest as she stood a long time
motionless before it. Then she began to pace slowly around and around
the little grass plot, her hands hanging loosely clasped before her, and
her eyes fixed on vacancy as if absorbed in thought. But as the first
effect of her beauty passed away, Lillian found something peculiar about
her. It was not the somewhat foreign dress and ornaments she wore; it
was in her face, her movements, and the tone of her voice, for as she
walked she sang a low, monotonous song, as if unconsciously. Lillian
watched her keenly, marking the aimless motions of the little hands, the
apathy of the lovely face, and the mirthless accent of the voice; but
most of all the vacant fixture of the great dark eyes. Around and around
she went, with an elastic step and a mechanical regularity wearisome to
witness.

What is the matter with her? thought Lillian anxiously, as this painful
impression increased with every scrutiny of the unconscious girl. So
abashed was she that Hester's call was unheard, and Hester was unseen as
she came and stood beside her. Both looked a moment, and as they looked
an old lady came from the house and led Helen in, still murmuring her
monotonous song and moving her hands as if to catch and hold the
sunshine.

"Poor dear, poor dear. No wonder Paul turns sad and won't talk of her,
and that she don't see anyone," sighed Hester pitifully.

"What is it? I see, but don't understand," whispered Lillian.

"She's an innocent, deary, an idiot, though that's a hard word for a
pretty creature like her."

"How terrible! Come away, Hester, and never breathe to anyone what we
have seen." And with a shudder and sense of pain and pity lying heavy at
her heart, she hurried away, feeling doubly guilty in the discovery of
this affliction. The thought of it haunted her continually; the memory
of the lonely girl gave her no peace; and a consciousness of deceit
burdened her unspeakably, especially in Paul's presence. This lasted for
a week, then Lillian resolved to confess, hoping that when he found she
knew the truth he would let her share his cross and help to lighten it.
Waiting her opportunity, she seized a moment when her mother was absent,
and with her usual frankness spoke out impetuously.

"Paul, I've done wrong, and I can have no peace till I am pardoned. I
have seen Helen."

"Where, when, and how?" he asked, looking disturbed and yet relieved.

She told him rapidly, and as she ended she looked up at him with her
sweet face, so full of pity, shame, and grief it would have been
impossible to deny her anything.

"Can you forgive me for discovering this affliction?"

"I think I could forgive you a far greater fault, Lillian," he answered,
in a tone that said many things.

"But deceit is so mean, so dishonorable and contemptible, how can you so
easily pardon it in me?" she asked, quite overcome by this forgiveness,
granted without any reproach.

"Then you would find it hard to pardon such a thing in another?" he
said, with the expression that always puzzled her.

"Yes, it would be hard; but in those I loved, I could forgive much for
love's sake."

With a sudden gesture he took her hand saying, impulsively, "How little
changed you are! Do you remember that last ride of ours nearly five
years ago?"

"Yes, Paul," she answered, with averted eyes.

"And what we talked of?"

"A part of that childish gossip I remember well."

"Which part?"

"The pretty little romance you told me." And Lillian looked up now,
longing to ask if Helen's childhood had been blighted like her youth.

Paul dropped her hand as if he, read her thoughts, and his own hand went
involuntarily toward his breast, betraying that the locket still hung
there.

"What did I say?" he asked, smiling at her sudden shyness.

"You vowed you'd win and wed your fair little lady-love if you lived."

"And so I will," he cried, with sudden fire in his eyes.

"What, marry her?"

"Aye, that I will."

"Oh Paul, will you tie yourself for life to a--" The word died on her
lips, but a gesture of repugnance finished the speech.

"A what?" he demanded, excitedly.

"An innocent, one bereft of reason," stammered Lillian, entirely
forgetting herself in her interest for him.

"Of whom do you speak?" asked Paul, looking utterly bewildered,

"Of poor Helen."

"Good heavens, who told you that base lie?" And his voice deepened with
indignant pain.

"I saw her, you did not deny her affliction; Hester said so, and I
believed it. Have I wronged her, Paul?"

"Yes, cruelly. She is blind, but no idiot, thank God."

There was such earnestness in his voice, such reproach in his words, and
such ardor in his eye, that Lillian's pride gave way, and with a broken
entreaty for pardon, she covered up her face, weeping the bitterest
tears she ever shed. For in that moment, and the sharp pang it brought
her, she felt how much she loved Paul and how hard it was to lose him.
The childish affection had blossomed into a woman's passion, and in a
few short weeks had passed through many phases of jealousy, hope,
despair, and self-delusion. The joy she felt on seeing him again, the
pride she took in him, the disgust Helen caused her, the relief she had
not dared to own even to herself, when she fancied fate had put an
insurmountable barrier between Paul and his cousin, the despair at
finding it only a fancy, and the anguish of hearing him declare his
unshaken purpose to marry his first love--all these conflicting emotions
had led to this hard moment, and now self-control deserted her in her
need. In spite of her efforts the passionate tears would have their way,
though Paul soothed her with assurances of entire forgiveness, promises
of Helen's friendship, and every gentle device he could imagine. She
commanded herself at last by a strong effort, murmuring eagerly as she
shrank from the hand that put back her fallen hair, and the face so full
of tender sympathy bending over her:

"I am so grieved and ashamed at what I have said and done. I shall never
dare to see Helen. Forgive me, and forget this folly. I'm sad and
heavyhearted just now; it's the anniversary of Papa's death, and Mamma
always suffers so much at such times that I get nervous."

"It is your birthday also. I remembered it, and ventured to bring a
little token in return for the one you gave me long ago. This is a
talisman, and tomorrow I will tell you the legend concerning it. Wear it
for my sake, and God bless you, dear."

The last words were whispered hurriedly; Lillian saw the glitter of an
antique ring, felt the touch of bearded lips on her hand, and Paul was
gone.

But as he left the house he set his teeth, exclaiming low to himself,
"Yes, tomorrow there shall be an end of this! We must risk everything
and abide the consequences now. I'll have no more torment for any of
us."




Chapter VII

THE SECRET KEY


"Is Lady Trevlyn at home, Bedford?" asked Paul, as he presented himself
at an early hour next day, wearing the keen, stern expression which made
him look ten years older than he was.

"No, sir, my lady and Miss Lillian went down to the Hall last night."

"No ill news, I hope?" And the young man's eye kindled as if he felt a
crisis at hand.

"Not that I heard, sir. Miss Lillian took one of her sudden whims and
would have gone alone, if my lady hadn't given in much against her will,
this being a time when she is better away from the place."

"Did they leave no message for me?"

"Yes, sir. Will you step in and read the note at your ease. We are in
sad confusion, but this room is in order."

Leading the way to Lillian's boudoir, the man presented the note and
retired. A few hasty lines from my lady, regretting the necessity of
this abrupt departure, yet giving no reason for it, hoping they might
meet next season, but making no allusion to seeing him at the Hall,
desiring Lillian's thanks and regards, but closing with no hint of
Helen, except compliments. Paul smiled as he threw it into the fire,
saying to himself, "Poor lady, she thinks she has escaped the danger by
flying, and Lillian tries to hide her trouble from me. Tender little
heart! I'll comfort it without delay."

He sat looking about the dainty room still full of tokens of her
presence. The piano stood open with a song he liked upon the rack; a bit
of embroidery, whose progress he had often watched, lay in her basket
with the little thimble near it; there was a strew of papers on the
writing table, torn notes, scraps of drawing, and ball cards; a
pearl-colored glove lay on the floor; and in the grate the faded flowers
he had brought two days before. As his eye roved to and fro, he seemed
to enjoy some happy dream, broken too soon by the sound of servants
shutting up the house. He arose but lingered near the table, as if
longing to search for some forgotten hint of himself.

"No, there has been enough lock picking and stealthy work; I'll do no
more for her sake. This theft will harm no one and tell no tales." And
snatching up the glove, Paul departed.

"Helen, the time has come. Are you ready?" he asked, entering her room
an hour later.

"I am ready." And rising, she stretched her hand to him with a proud
expression, contrasting painfully with her helpless gesture.

"They have gone to the Hall, and we must follow. It is useless to wait
longer; we gain nothing by it, and the claim must stand on such proof as
we have, or fall for want of that one link. I am tired of disguise. I
want to be myself and enjoy what I have won, unless I lose it all."

"Paul, whatever happens, remember we cling together and share good or
evil fortune as we always have done. I am a burden, but I cannot live
without you, for you are my world. Do not desert me."

She groped her way to him and clung to his strong arm as if it was her
only stay. Paul drew her close, saying wistfully, as he caressed the
beautiful sightless face leaning on his shoulder, " Mia cara , would it
break your heart, if at the last hour I gave up all and let the word
remain unspoken? My courage fails me, and in spite of the hard past I
would gladly leave them in peace."

"No, no, you shall not give it up!" cried Helen almost fiercely, while
the slumbering fire of her southern nature flashed into her face. "You
have waited so long, worked so hard, suffered so much, you must not lose
your reward. You promised, and you must keep the promise."

"But it is so beautiful, so noble to forgive, and return a blessing for
a curse. Let us bury the old feud, and right the old wrong in a new way.
Those two are so blameless, it is cruel to visit the sins of the dead on
their innocent heads. My lady has suffered enough already, and Lillian
is so young, so happy, so unfit to meet a storm like this. Oh, Helen,
mercy is more divine than justice."

Something moved Paul deeply, and Helen seemed about to yield, when the
name of Lillian wrought a subtle change in her. The color died out of
her face, her black eyes burned with a gloomy fire, and her voice was
relentless as she answered, while her frail hands held him fast, "I will
not let you give it up. We are as innocent as they; we have suffered
more; and we deserve our rights, for we have no sin to expiate. Go on,
Paul, and forget the sentimental folly that unmans you."

Something in her words seemed to sting or wound him. His face darkened,
and he put her away, saying briefly, "Let it be so then. In an hour we
must go."

On the evening of the same day, Lady Trevlyn and her daughter sat
together in the octagon room at the Hall. Twilight was falling and
candles were not yet brought, but a cheery fire blazed in the wide
chimney, filling the apartment with a ruddy glow, turning Lillian's
bright hair to gold and lending a tinge of color to my lady's pallid
cheeks. The girl sat on a low lounging chair before the fire, her head
on her hand, her eyes on the red embers, her thoughts--where? My lady
lay on her couch, a little in the shadow, regarding her daughter with an
anxious air, for over the young face a somber change had passed which
filled her with disquiet.

"You are out of spirits, love," she said at last, breaking the long
silence, as Lillian gave an unconscious sigh and leaned wearily into the
depths of her chair.

"Yes, Mamma, a little."

"What is it? Are you ill?"

"No, Mamma; I think London gaiety is rather too much for me. I'm too
young for it, as you often say, and I've found it out."

"Then it is only weariness that makes you so pale and grave, and so bent
on coming back here?"

Lillian was the soul of truth, and with a moment's hesitation answered
slowly, "Not that alone, Mamma. I'm worried about other things. Don't
ask me what, please."

"But I must ask. Tell me, child, what things? Have you seen any one? Had
letters, or been annoyed in any way about--anything?"

My lady spoke with sudden energy and rose on her arm, eyeing the girl
with unmistakable suspicion and excitement.

"No, Mamma, it's only a foolish trouble of my own," answered Lillian,
with a glance of surprise and a shamefaced look as the words reluctantly
left her lips.

"Ah, a love trouble, nothing more? Thank God for that!" And my lady sank
back as if a load was off her mind. "Tell me all, my darling; there is
no confidante like a mother."

"You are very kind, and perhaps you can cure my folly if I tell it, and
yet I am ashamed," murmured the girl. Then yielding to an irresistible
impulse to ask help and sympathy, she added, in an almost inaudible
tone, "I came away to escape from Paul."

"Because he loves you, Lillian?" asked my lady, with a frown and a half
smile.

"Because he does  not  love me, Mamma." And the poor girl hid her
burning cheeks in her hands, as if overwhelmed with maidenly shame at
the implied confession of her own affection.

"My child, how is this? I cannot but be glad that he does  not  love
you; yet it fills me with grief to see that this pains you. He is not a
mate for you, Lillian. Remember this, and forget the transient regard
that has sprung up from that early intimacy of yours."

"He is wellborn, and now my equal in fortune, and oh, so much my
superior in all gifts of mind and heart," sighed the girl, still with
hidden face, for tears were dropping through her slender fingers.

"It may be, but there is a mystery about him; and I have a vague dislike
to him in spite of all that has passed. But, darling, are you sure he
does not care for you? I fancied I read a different story in his face,
and when you begged to leave town so suddenly, I believed that you had
seen this also, and kindly wished to spare him any pain."

"It was to spare myself. Oh, Mamma, he loves Helen, and will marry her
although she is blind. He told me this, with a look I could not doubt,
and so I came away to hide my sorrow," sobbed poor Lillian in despair.

Lady Trevlyn went to her and, laying the bright head on her motherly
bosom, said soothingly as she caressed it, "My little girl, it is too
soon for you to know these troubles, and I am punished for yielding to
your entreaties for a peep at the gay world. It is now too late to spare
you this; you have had your wish and must pay its price, dear. But,
Lillian, call pride to aid you, and conquer this fruitless love. It
cannot be very deep as yet, for you have known Paul, the man, too short
a time to be hopelessly enamored. Remember, there are others, better,
braver, more worthy of you; that life is long, and full of pleasure yet
untried."

"Have no fears for me, Mamma. I'll not disgrace you or myself by any
sentimental folly. I do love Paul, but I can conquer it, and I will.
Give me a little time, and you shall see me quite myself again."

Lillian lifted her head with an air of proud resolve that satisfied her
mother, and with a grateful kiss stole away to ease her full heart
alone. As she disappeared Lady Trevlyn drew a long breath and, clasping
her hands with a gesture of thanksgiving, murmured to herself in an
accent of relief, "Only a love sorrow! I feared it was some new terror
like the old one. Seventeen years of silence, seventeen years of secret
dread and remorse for me," she said, pacing the room with tightly locked
hands and eyes full of unspeakable anguish. "Oh, Richard, Richard! I
forgave you long ago, and surely I have expiated my innocent offense by
these years of suffering! For her sake I did it, and for her sake I
still keep dumb. God knows I ask nothing for myself but rest and
oblivion by your side."

Half an hour later, Paul stood at the hall door. It was ajar, for the
family had returned unexpectedly, as was evident from the open doors and
empty halls. Entering unseen, he ascended to the room my lady usually
occupied. The fire burned low, Lillian's chair was empty, and my lady
lay asleep, as if lulled by the sighing winds without and the deep
silence that reigned within. Paul stood regarding her with a great pity
softening his face as he marked the sunken eyes, pallid cheeks, locks
too early gray, and restless lips muttering in dreams.

"I wish I could spare her this," he sighed, stooping to wake her with a
word. But he did not speak, for, suddenly clutching the chain about her
neck, she seemed to struggle with some invisible foe and beat it off,
muttering audibly as she clenched her thin hands on the golden case.
Paul leaned and listened as if the first word had turned him to stone,
till the paroxysm had passed, and with a heavy sigh my lady sank into a
calmer sleep. Then, with a quick glance over his shoulder, Paul
skillfully opened the locket, drew out the silver key, replaced it with
one from the piano close by, and stole from the house noiselessly as he
had entered it.

That night, in the darkest hour before the dawn, a figure went gliding
through the shadowy Park to its most solitary corner. Here stood the
tomb of the Trevlyns, and here the figure paused. A dull spark of light
woke in its hand, there was a clank of bars, the creak of rusty hinges,
then light and figure both seemed swallowed up.

Standing in the tomb where the air was close and heavy, the pale glimmer
of the lantern showed piles of moldering coffins in the niches, and
everywhere lay tokens of decay and death. The man drew his hat lower
over his eyes, pulled the muffler closer about his mouth, and surveyed
the spot with an undaunted aspect, though the beating of his heart was
heard in the deep silence. Nearest the door stood a long casket covered
with black velvet and richly decorated with silver ornaments, tarnished
now. The Trevlyns had been a stalwart race, and the last sleeper brought
there had evidently been of goodly stature, for the modern coffin was as
ponderous as the great oaken beds where lay the bones of generations.
Lifting the lantern, the intruder brushed the dust from the
shield-shaped plate, read the name RICHARD TREVLYN and a date, and, as
if satisfied, placed a key in the lock, half-raised the lid, and,
averting his head that he might not see the ruin seventeen long years
had made, he laid his hand on the dead breast and from the folded shroud
drew a mildewed paper. One glance sufficed, the casket was relocked, the
door rebarred, the light extinguished, and the man vanished like a ghost
in the darkness of the wild October night.




Chapter VIII

WHICH?


"A Gentleman, my lady."

Taking a card from the silver salver on which the servant offered it,
Lady Trevlyn read, "Paul Talbot," and below the name these penciled
words, "I beseech you to see me." Lillian stood beside her and saw the
line. Their eyes met, and in the girl's face was such a sudden glow of
hope, and love, and longing, that the mother could not doubt or
disappoint her wish.

"I will see him," she said.

"Oh, Mamma, how kind you are!" cried the girl with a passionate embrace,
adding breathlessly, "He did not ask for me. I cannot see him yet. I'll
hide in the alcove, and can appear or run away as I like when we know
why he comes."

They were in the library, for, knowing Lillian's fondness for the room
which held no dark memories for her, my lady conquered her dislike and
often sat there. As she spoke, the girl glided into the deep recess of a
bay window and drew the heavy curtains just as Paul's step sounded at
the door.

Hiding her agitation with a woman's skill, my lady rose with
outstretched hand to welcome him. He bowed but did not take the hand,
saying, in a voice of grave respect in which was audible an undertone of
strong emotion, "Pardon me, Lady Trevlyn. Hear what I have to say; and
then if you offer me your hand, I shall gratefully receive it."

She glanced at him, and saw that he was very pale, that his eye
glittered with suppressed excitement, and his whole manner was that of a
man who had nerved himself up to the performance of a difficult but
intensely interesting task. Fancying these signs of agitation only
natural in a young lover coming to woo, my lady smiled, reseated
herself, and calmly answered, "I will listen patiently. Speak freely,
Paul, and remember I am an old friend."

"I wish I could forget it. Then my task would be easier," he murmured in
a voice of mingled regret and resolution, as he leaned on a tall chair
opposite and wiped his damp forehead, with a look of such deep
compassion that her heart sank with a nameless fear.

"I must tell you a long story, and ask your forgiveness for the offenses
I committed against you when a boy. A mistaken sense of duty guided me,
and I obeyed it blindly. Now I see my error and regret it," he said
earnestly.

"Go on," replied my lady, while the vague dread grew stronger, and she
braced her nerves as for some approaching shock. She forgot Lillian,
forgot everything but the strange aspect of the man before her, and the
words to which she listened like a statue. Still standing pale and
steady, Paul spoke rapidly, while his eyes were full of mingled
sternness, pity, and remorse.

"Twenty years ago, an English gentleman met a friend in a little Italian
town, where he had married a beautiful wife. The wife had a sister as
lovely as herself, and the young man, during that brief stay, loved and
married her--in a very private manner, lest his father should disinherit
him. A few months passed, and the Englishman was called home to take
possession of his title and estates, the father being dead. He went
alone, promising to send for the wife when all was ready. He told no one
of his marriage, meaning to surprise his English friends by producing
the lovely woman unexpectedly. He had been in England but a short time
when he received a letter from the old priest of the Italian town,
saying the cholera had swept through it, carrying off half its
inhabitants, his wife and friend among others. This blow prostrated the
young man, and when he recovered he hid his grief, shut himself up in
his country house, and tried to forget. Accident threw in his way
another lovely woman, and he married again. Before the first year was
out, the friend whom he supposed was dead appeared, and told him that
his wife still lived, and had borne him a child. In the terror and
confusion of the plague, the priest had mistaken one sister for the
other, as the elder did die."

"Yes, yes, I know; go on!" gasped my lady, with white lips, and eyes
that never left the narrator's face.

"This friend had met with misfortune after flying from the doomed
village with the surviving sister. They had waited long for letters, had
written, and, when no answer came, had been delayed by illness and
poverty from reaching England. At this time the child was born, and the
friend, urged by the wife and his own interest, came here, learned that
Sir Richard was married, and hurried to him in much distress. We can
imagine the grief and horror of the unhappy man. In that interview the
friend promised to leave all to Sir Richard, to preserve the secret till
some means of relief could be found; and with this promise he returned,
to guard and comfort the forsaken wife. Sir Richard wrote the truth to
Lady Trevlyn, meaning to kill himself, as the only way of escape from
the terrible situation between two women, both so beloved, both so
innocently wronged. The pistol lay ready, but death came without its
aid, and Sir Richard was spared the sin of suicide."

Paul paused for breath, but Lady Trevlyn motioned him to go on, still
sitting rigid and white as the marble image near her.

"The friend only lived to reach home and tell the story. It killed the
wife, and she died, imploring the old priest to see her child righted
and its father's name secured to it. He promised; but he was poor, the
child was a frail baby, and he waited. Years passed, and when the child
was old enough to ask for its parents and demand its due, the proofs of
the marriage were lost, and nothing remained but a ring, a bit of
writing, and the name. The priest was very old, had neither friends,
money, nor proofs to help him; but I was strong and hopeful, and though
a mere boy I resolved to do the work. I made my way to England, to
Trevlyn Hall, and by various stratagems (among which, I am ashamed to
say, were false keys and feigned sleepwalking) I collected many proofs,
but nothing which would satisfy a court, for no one but you knew where
Sir Richard's confession was. I searched every nook and corner of the
Hall, but in vain, and began to despair, when news of the death of
Father Cosmo recalled me to Italy; for Helen was left to my care then.
The old man had faithfully recorded the facts and left witnesses to
prove the truth of his story; but for four years I never used it, never
made any effort to secure the title or estates."

"Why not?" breathed my lady in a faint whisper, as hope suddenly
revived.

"Because I was grateful," and for the first time Paul's voice faltered.
"I was a stranger, and you took me in. I never could forget that, nor
tie many kindnesses bestowed upon the friendless boy. This afflicted me,
even while I was acting a false part, and when I was away my heart
failed me. But Helen gave me no peace; for my sake, she urged me to keep
the vow made to that poor mother, and threatened to tell the story
herself. Talbot's benefaction left me no excuse for delaying longer, and
I came to finish the hardest task I can ever undertake. I feared that a
long dispute would follow any appeal to law, and meant to appeal first
to you, but fate befriended me, and the last proof was found."

"Found! Where?" cried Lady Trevlyn, springing up aghast.

"In Sir Richard's coffin, where you hid it, not daring to destroy, yet
fearing to keep it."

"Who has betrayed me?" And her eye glanced wildly about the room, as if
she feared to see some spectral accuser.

"Your own lips, my lady. Last night I came to speak of this. You lay
asleep, and in some troubled dream spoke of the paper, safe in its
writer's keeping, and your strange treasure here, the key of which you
guarded day and night. I divined the truth. Remembering Hester's
stories, I took the key from your helpless hand, found the paper on Sir
Richard's dead breast, and now demand that you confess your part in this
tragedy."

"I do, I do! I confess, I yield, I relinquish everything, and ask pity
only for my child."

Lady Trevlyn fell upon her knees before him, with a submissive gesture,
but imploring eyes, for, amid the wreck of womanly pride and worldly
fortune, the mother's heart still clung to its idol.

"Who should pity her, if not I? God knows I would have spared her this
blow if I could; but Helen would not keep silent, and I was driven to
finish what I had begun. Tell Lillian this, and do not let her hate me."

As Paul spoke, tenderly, eagerly, the curtain parted, and Lillian
appeared, trembling with the excitement of that interview, but conscious
of only one emotion as she threw herself into his arms, crying in a tone
of passionate delight, "Brother! Brother! Now I may love you!"

Paul held her close, and for a moment forgot everything but the joy of
that moment. Lillian spoke first, looking up through tears of
tenderness, her little hand laid caressingly against his cheek, as she
whispered with sudden bloom in her own, "Now I know why I loved you so
well, and now I can see you marry Helen without breaking my heart. Oh,
Paul, you are still mine, and I care for nothing else."

"But, Lillian, I am not your brother."

"Then, in heaven's name, who are you?" she cried, tearing herself from
his arms.

"Your lover, dear!"

"Who, then, is the heir?" demanded Lady Trevlyn, springing up, as
Lillian turned to seek shelter with her mother.

"I am."

Helen spoke, and Helen stood on the threshold of the door, with a hard,
haughty look upon her beautiful face.

"You told your story badly, Paul," she said, in a bitter tone. "You
forgot me, forgot my affliction, my loneliness, my wrongs, and the
natural desire of a child to clear her mother's honor and claim her
father's name. I am Sir Richard's eldest daughter. I can prove my birth,
and I demand my right with his own words to sustain me."

She paused, but no one spoke; and with a slight tremor in her proud
voice, she added, "Paul has done the work; he shall have the reward. I
only want my father's name. Title and fortune are nothing to one like
me. I coveted and claimed them that I might give them to you, Paul, my
one friend, always, so tender and so true."

"I'll have none of it," he answered, almost fiercely. "I have kept my
promise, and am free. You chose to claim your own, although I offered
all I had to buy your silence. It is yours by right--take it, and enjoy
it if you can. I'll have no reward for work like this."

He turned from her with a look that would have stricken her to the heart
could she have seen it. She felt it, and it seemed to augment some
secret anguish, for she pressed her hands against her bosom with an
expression of deep suffering, exclaiming passionately, "Yes, I  will 
keep it, since I am to lose all else. I am tired of pity. Power is
sweet, and I will use it. Go, Paul, and be happy if you can, with a
nameless wife, and the world's compassion or contempt to sting your
pride."

"Oh, Lillian, where shall we go? This is no longer our home, but who
will receive us now?" cried Lady Trevlyn, in a tone of despair, for her
spirit was utterly broken by the thought of the shame and sorrow in
store for this beloved and innocent child.

"I will." And Paul's face shone with a love and loyalty they could not
doubt. "My lady, you gave me a home when I was homeless; now let me pay
my debt. Lillian, I have loved you from the time when, a romantic boy, I
wore your little picture in my breast, and vowed to win you if I lived.
I dared not speak before, but now, when other hearts may be shut against
you, mine stands wide open to welcome you. Come, both. Let me protect
and cherish you, and so atone for the sorrow I have brought you."

It was impossible to resist the sincere urgency of his voice, the tender
reverence of his manner, as he took the two forlorn yet innocent
creatures into the shelter of his strength and love. They clung to him
instinctively, feeling that there still remained to them one staunch
friend whom adversity could not estrange.

An eloquent silence fell upon the room, broken only by sobs, grateful
whispers, and the voiceless vows that lovers plight with eyes, and
hands, and tender lips. Helen was forgotten, till Lillian, whose elastic
spirit threw off sorrow as a flower sheds the rain, looked up to thank
Paul, with smiles as well as tears, and saw the lonely figure in the
shadow. Her attitude was full of pathetic significance; she still stood
on the threshold, for no one had welcomed her, and in the strange room
she knew not where to go; her hands were clasped before her face, as if
those sightless eyes had seen the joy she could not share, and at her
feet lay the time-stained paper that gave her a barren title, but no
love. Had Lillian known how sharp a conflict between passion and pride,
jealousy and generosity, was going on in that young heart, she could not
have spoken in a tone of truer pity or sincerer goodwill than that in
which she softly said, "Poor girl! We must not forget her, for, with all
her wealth, she is poor compared to us. We both had one father, and
should love each other in spite of this misfortune. Helen, may I call
you sister?"

"Not yet. Wait till I deserve it."

As if that sweet voice had kindled an answering spark of nobleness in
her own heart, Helen's face changed beautifully, as she tore the paper
to shreds, saying in a glad, impetuous tone, while the white flakes
fluttered from her hands, "I, too, can be generous. I, too, can forgive.
I bury the sad past. See! I yield my claim, I destroy my proofs, I
promise eternal silence, and keep 'Paul's cousin' for my only title.
Yes, you are happy, for you love one another!" she cried, with a sudden
passion of tears. "Oh, forgive me, pity me, and take me in, for I am all
alone and in the dark!"

There could be but one reply to an appeal like that, and they gave it,
as they welcomed her with words that sealed a household league of mutual
secrecy and sacrifice.

They  were  happy, for the world never knew the hidden tie that bound
them so faithfully together, never learned how well the old prophecy had
been fulfilled, or guessed what a tragedy of life and death the silver
key unlocked.







Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        MURDER IN BLACK LETTER

                             POUL ANDERSON

                         THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                          NEW YORK · CHICAGO
                   DALLAS · ATLANTA · SAN FRANCISCO
                            LONDON · MANILA

                               IN CANADA
                         BRETT-MACMILLAN LTD.
                             GALT, ONTARIO

                               New York 
                         THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                                 1960

                          POUL ANDERSON 1960

 [Transcriber's Note: Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
       that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

  All rights reserved--no part of this book may be reproduced in any
  form without permission in writing from the publisher, except by a
   reviewer who wishes to quote brief passages in connection with a
        review written for inclusion in magazine or newspaper.

                            First Printing 

           Library of Congress catalog card number: 59-5690

                    The Macmillan Company, New York
                  Brett-Macmillan Ltd., Galt, Ontario

                Printed in the United States of America

                    To him whom I shall ever regard
                    as the best and wisest man whom
                          I have ever known 




DISCLAIMER


Except, of course, for Taffimai Metallumai, all characters in this book
are fictitious, without intentional resemblance to any actual person,
living or dead. The events described are made up out of whole cloth.
The hotels, restaurants, companies, and other business enterprises
herein mentioned are equally nonexistent. Two real institutions occur:
the University of California and the Berkeley Police Department. There
is no implication intended that either of these would condone all the
actions and opinions of the imaginary people I have wished onto their
payrolls.




1


Steel talked between roses. Kintyre parried Yamamura's slash; his
riposte thumped on the other man's arm.

"Touché!" exclaimed the detective. He took off his mask and wiped sweat
from a long, high-cheeked face. "Or is it you who's supposed to say
that? Anyhow, enough for today."

"You're not doing so badly, Trig," Kintyre told him. "And I have some
revenge due for all those times you've had me cartwheeling through the
air, down at the dojo."

Trygve Yamamura clicked his tongue. He stood over six feet tall, lanky,
the Oriental half of him showing mostly in narrow black eyes and
smoked-amber skin. "You would use sabers, wouldn't you?" he said.

Robert Kintyre shrugged. "A foil is for women and I'm not fast enough
for an épée. Also, there's professional interest. A saber is a wee bit
closer to the Renaissance weapon."

"I think I'll stick to Japanese swords."

Kintyre nodded. He was a stocky man of medium height, with straight
dark hair above a square, snub-nosed, sallow-complexioned face. His
eyes were gray under level brows, and set unusually far apart; there
was little else to mark him out physically, until you noticed his
gait. To an only slightly lesser degree than Yamamura's, it had the
indefinable compactness of a judo man.

They stood in a garden in Berkeley. Walls enclosed them: the main
house, now vacant while its owner and family were on vacation; the
three-room cottage to the rear which Kintyre rented; a board fence
strewn with climbing blossoms on either side. Overhead lay a tall sky
where the afternoon sun picked out the vapor trail of a jet sliding
above San Francisco Bay.

"I agree, Samurai swords make these look like pitchforks," said
Kintyre. "But you can't do much with them except collect them. Too
damned effective!"

Yamamura removed his padded coat and fished for his pipe. "You off work
now?" he asked.

"Yep. Last bloody paper corrected, last report in, term's over, and I'm
not teaching again till fall. It's great, though impoverished, to be
free."

"You're making a pack trip into Kings Canyon, aren't you?"

"Uh-huh. Bruce Lombardi and I were supposed to leave tomorrow. Only
what the devil has become of Bruce?" Kintyre scowled. "His girl called
me last night, said he'd left the day before--Saturday--and hadn't come
back yet. She was worried. I'm beginning to be."

"Hm." Attentiveness flickered up in Yamamura. His agency, small and
new, had no engagements at the moment. However, he spoke with no more
than friendly concern. "Is it like the kid to go tearing off that way?
I don't know him especially well, he's just somebody I meet now and
then at your place."

"That's the point," said Kintyre. "It is not like him. The department
head inquired about it this morning. Bruce hasn't turned in the grades
for two of his classes; and he's disgustingly reliable, normally."
He paused. "On the other hand, he's having his troubles these days
and--anyhow, I hesitate to--"

Footsteps sounded in the driveway. A trim quasi-military shape came
around the house.

"Officer Moffat," said Yamamura. He had belonged to the Berkeley force
until he set up for himself. "What's happened?"

"Hello, Trig," said the policeman. He turned to the other. "Are you
Professor Robert Kintyre?"

"Assistant professor only, no cobwebs yet." Why did he answer with a
bad joke, he wondered--postponing something?

"How do you do. I'm sorry to bother you, sir, but we're trying to
identify a young man who was found dead this morning. I was told that
someone of his description was a teaching assistant in the history
department, and that you knew him best."

The voice was sympathetic, but Kintyre stood very quietly for a moment.
Then: "I know a lot of young men, but perhaps--Bruce Lombardi?"

"That's the name I was given," said Moffat. "I'm told you were his
faculty adviser."

"Yes." Kintyre pawed blindly after a cigarette, meeting only his
jacket. "How did he come to die?"

"If it is him. Do you think you could identify him for us? I warn you,
it isn't pretty."

"I've seen dead men before," said Kintyre. "Come on." He started toward
the street.

"Your clothes," said Moffat gently.

"Oh, yes. Yes. Thanks." Kintyre fumbled at his equipment. He threw it
on the grass. "Put this junk away for me, will you, Trig?" His voice
was uncertain. "I'll call you later."

"Sure," said Yamamura in a low tone. "Call me anytime."

Kintyre followed Moffat to the police car. It nosed off the
shabby-genteel residential street and into southbound traffic. Moffat,
at the wheel, pointed to the cigarette lighter.

Kintyre put tobacco smoke into his lungs and insisted: "What happened?"

"He seems to have been murdered." Moffat's eyes flickered sideways
along his passenger's wide shoulders, down to the thick wrists and
hands. "We'll go to headquarters first, if you don't mind, and you can
talk to Inspector Harries."

In the following time, at the office, Kintyre answered many questions.
Inspector Harries seemed to have little doubt who his corpse was, but
much uncertainty about everything else.

"Bruce Lombardi. Age twenty-four, did you say? Five feet nine, slender
build, brown eyes, curly brown hair--m-hm. Did he wear glasses?"

"Yes. He was nearsighted. Horn rims."

"What kind of clothes did he ordinarily pick?"

"Anything he got his hands on. He was a sloppy dresser. I remember--no,
never mind."

"Please tell me, Dr. Kintyre. It may have some bearing."

"Hardly. This was about five years ago. I was an assistant bucking
for an instructorship, he was a freshman with a major in my
department--history, did I tell you? There was some kind of scholastic
tea or something--semiformal--you know. He showed up in a secondhand
tweed jacket and an old pair of khaki wash pants. He honestly thought
they were suitable for--Never mind. It seemed funny at the time."

Kintyre stubbed out his cigarette (the fifth, sixth, twentieth?) and
took a deep breath. He was letting this run away with him, he thought.
He was yattering like an old woman, shaken into brainlessness. It was
not as if he had never encountered death before.

He groped toward the teaching of the dojo, the judo school. Judo
is only in part a sport; it is also a philosophy, the Gentle Way,
with many aspects, and the first thing to learn is to relax utterly.
The passive man is prepared for anything, for he can himself become
anything.

But it was an unreal attempt. Kintyre's interest in judo was a
superficial growth of a few years; his roots lay in the West. He
understood with sudden bleakness why Bruce's death had so clamped on
him: once again someone he cared for was gone, and the horror he had
borne for two decades stirred toward awakening.

"Don't you feel well, Dr. Kintyre?"

Harries leaned over the desk, politely concerned. "I'm sorry to put you
to a strain like this. If you want to rest a while--"

"No." Kintyre mustered a degree of steadiness. "I was a bit shaken,
but--Go ahead. If Bruce really was murdered, I certainly want to give
you any help I can finding who did it."

The inspector regarded him thoughtfully. "You and he were pretty close,
weren't you?"

"In a way. He was almost eleven years younger than I, and had lived
a--limited life. Not sheltered in the usual sense, his family being
poor, but limited. And he was such a peaceful fellow, and his life
since entering college had been mostly books. It made him seem even
younger."

Kintyre sighed. "We got to be about as friendly as one can get under
such circumstances," he finished. "Maybe I looked on him as a son. Not
being married, I can't be sure of that."

"Did he ever say anything which led you to believe that he might be in
serious trouble?"

"No. Absolutely not. That is, I knew his older brother hung--hangs
around with a dubious crowd over in San Francisco, and it distressed
him, but he never implied anything really bad was involved."

"Let's see." Harries looked at some notes. "I gather he left his,
uh, girl friend's place about six P.M. Saturday, telling her he had
business over in the City and she shouldn't wait up. She got worried
and checked with you Sunday evening. And he was found by a patrol car
this morning, at daybreak, on the bank of the old frontage road, near
the Ashby Avenue turnoff."

"You've worked fast," said Kintyre.  Or did I tell you all this?  he
wondered.  There are a few minutes which I remember only hazily. I was
so busy fighting myself. 

"What did you do over the weekend?" asked Harries in a casual tone.

"Oh, let's see--Saturday morning I puttered around down at the yacht
harbor, doing some work on my boat. I went home in the afternoon,
graded papers and so on, went out at night and had a few beers with a
friend--Dr. Levinson of the physiology department. Sunday morning I
took a sail on the Bay, and later finished my paperwork. Shortly after
Miss Towne had called me, I was invited over to Gerald Clayton's suite
at the Fairhill. We had some drinks and talked till quite late. This
morning I turned in my last reports to the University, came home, and
was horsing around with Trig Yamamura when your man arrived."

"You seem pretty well alibied," smiled Harries. "Not that we suspect
anyone on this side of the Bay."

"Why not?"

Harries' mouth tightened. "Dr. Kintyre, you'll undoubtedly be asked a
great many more questions in the next several days. Get the worst over
with now. Then go out with some friends and have a lot more drinks.
That's my advice."

They shook hands, feeling it was a somehow theatrical gesture, and thus
being embarrassed without knowing how to avoid it. Moffat drove Kintyre
through miles of city, down to that place in Oakland where the dead man
was kept.

They entered a chill room. Kintyre took the lead, compulsively. He went
to the sheeted thing and uncovered it.

After a while he turned around. "Bruce Lombardi," he said. "Yes."

"I'm sorry you--Oh, hell." Moffat looked away. "He was a sort of
handsome young chap, wasn't he? Thin regular features and so on. I'll
bet his parents were proud of him."

"They paid his undergraduate expenses," mumbled Kintyre. "Since then
he went ahead on scholarships and assistantships, but those were four
high-priced years for a poor family."

"And now they'll see this. Hell." Moffat stood with fingers doubled
together, talking fast. He himself was rather young, more shaken than
his superiors would have wished. "Look at those burns--marks--He's like
that all over. He was never unconscious once, unless he passed out
now and then--no blackjack marks, no chloroform, just rope bruises.
Then when he was dead, the murderers cut off his fingers and hacked
his face some more, to make it harder for us to identify. Stuffed him
into an old coat and pair of pants and left him half in the tidewater.
Twenty-four years of age, did you say? This is what the old Lombardis
have to show for their twenty-four years. Jesus Christ. I'll bet  I 
have to take his father in here."

"You think it was a sadist?"

"Oh, sure, I don't doubt at least one of the murderers got his kicks.
It takes a cracked brain to do something like this--even for money.
Yes, I feel pretty sure it was a professional job. Most of the torture
was systematic, almost neat, for a definite purpose. You can see that.
When they reached their purpose, when he talked or whatever it was,
they cut his throat--neatly--then mutilated him for a good logical
reason, to make it harder for us, and disposed of the body in regular
gangland style. They shouldn't have dumped him in Berkeley. The
Berkeley force sees so many University people we automatically thought
a nice-looking young fellow like this might belong on the campus, and
checked. But that was their only mistake. Mine was going in for a job
where I'll have to show this to his father."

"Must you?"

"It's the law. I wish it weren't."

Moffat moved to pull back the sheet, but Kintyre was there first.
Covering Bruce's face made a kind of finality. Though the real closing
curtain had fallen hours ago, he thought, when Bruce lifted hands torn,
broken, and burned, to take death for his weariness. And afterward they
cut his fingers off. Maybe the curtain had not been rung down yet.




2


By the time Kintyre got back, it was close to sunset. He entered a
book-lined living room. There were a few good pictures, a small record
player, his sabers hung on the wall by Trig, the furniture bought used
or made out of old boxes--otherwise little. He did not believe in
cluttering life with objects.

He poured himself a stiff drink. Glenlivet was his only expensive
luxury. He sat down to savor it and perhaps think a little about Bruce.
There was no solid reason why the boy should have made so large a niche
in Kintyre's existence, but somehow he had. The emptiness hurt.

When the phone rang, Kintyre was there picking it up before
consciousness of the noise registered. He was not surprised to hear
Margery Towne's voice.

"Bob? You know?"

"Yes. I'm sorry. I wish to hell I could tell you just how sorry."

"I can guess." Her tone was flattened by the control she must be
keeping on it. "We both loved him, didn't we?"

"I think everybody did."

"Somebody didn't, Bob."

"I suppose you heard through the police?"

"They were here a few minutes ago. Do they know  everything ?"

"Probably I gave them your name. They came to me first, for the
identification."

"They were very nice about it and all that, but--"

Silence whistled remotely over the wires.

"Bob, could you come talk to me? Now?"

"Sure, pony. Give me half an hour."

Kintyre hung up one-handed, starting to undress with the other. He went
through a shower and put on a suit in ten minutes.

Margery's apartment was catercorner from his, with the University
between. He parked his battered '48 De Soto on the near side of the
campus and walked across, hoping to hoof out some of the muscular
tightness and set his thoughts in order.

Level yellow light came through eucalyptus groves to splash on a
cropped greensward and pompous white buildings, almost bare of
mankind in this pause between baccalaureate ceremonies and summer
classes. Kintyre reflected vaguely that he would have to go through
Bruce's desk, finish his work, yes, and complete his study of the
Book of Witches.... His mind drifted off toward a worried practical
consideration. What could he do about Margery?

He wanted to help her, if he could--double damnation, hadn't he tried
before? At the same time he was not, repeat not, going to get himself
involved. It would be unfair to both of them.

There were rules of the game, and so he had played it with her. You
left wives and virgins alone: well, she was long divorced, and had
slept around a bit since then. You neither gave to nor took from a
woman. You made it perfectly clear you weren't interested in anything
permanent. And when you broke it off, after a pleasant few months, you
did it cleanly: he had the best excuse in the world, back in 1955, an
academic grant that returned him to Italy for a year of research in his
specialty, the Renaissance. (But she had been very quiet, the last few
weeks; sometimes at night he had heard her trying not to cry.) Back
home again, you didn't resume old affairs: you were simply friendly, on
such occasions as you happened to meet.

Yes, of course. Only then she took up with Bruce, and Bruce had wanted
to marry her, and she had plainly been considering it, and now Bruce
was dead and Kintyre was on his way to console her. Could you walk
in her door and say: "Hello, I still subscribe to the why-buy-a-cow
philosophy so be careful, now you may weep on my shoulder"?

He realized he was sucking on a dead cigarette. He threw it away and
stopped to light another. He was almost under the building which housed
his own department.

"Good evening."

Kintyre looked up. Jabez Owens was walking toward him.

"Hello," he answered. "How are you? Excuse me, but I've got to--"

Owens reached him and took his hand. "My dear old chap," he said in his
most Harvard accent, "I'm awfully sorry."

"Hm?"

"Young Lombardi. I saw it in the papers. You know?"

"Yes." Kintyre looked coldly at Owens. The writer was a tall man, the
breadth of his shoulders attributable only in part to his tailor. He
had straight ruddy features, dark wavy hair graying at the temples,
blue eyes behind wrought-iron glasses, tweedy clothes with a scarf
filling the V of the jacket, and a small calabash pipe in one pocket.

"I know he was murdered," said Kintyre, watching the other's face.

"Terrible. I remember once in Sumatra--but that was long ago. See
here," said Owens candidly, "I know you know of my disagreements with
the poor young fellow. Why, it was only--when? Thursday night we were
at that party at Clayton's. You must have heard us quarreling over his
silly thesis. But this!  De mortuis nil nisi bonum. "

Kintyre did not like Owens. It was not so much the scholar raising his
hackles at a rather lurid popularizer. What the devil, Owens' books
stirred up some public interest; they passed on some information,
however distorted; and that was more than you could say for the average
historiographic monograph. But during the whole week he had been in
Berkeley, one long theatrical performance had gone on, with Jabez Owens
the plot, dialogue, director, producer, star, supporting cast, and
claque. It grew monotonous.

Wherefore Kintyre said maliciously: "I'll be completing that thesis for
him. Doubtless I too will be forced to include a side glance at those
Borgia letters of yours. But it'll take me a while, I don't have all
the facts and deductions at my fingertips as he did. So I suggest you
hurry to Hollywood and get that movie started."

Owens laughed a well gauged laugh, neither too loud for this posthumous
argument nor too small to sound genuine. "I'd love to take you on," he
said. "Nothing I like better than a good verbal fight, and that's what
the boy was giving me. As a matter of fact, I may be staying here a few
more days. Or maybe not. But what I really stopped you for was to offer
my sympathy and ask if I could help."

"What with?" asked Kintyre. It stuck him as a bit of a coincidence
that Owens had happened to be passing by this special building at this
moment.

"Oh, I don't know. Nothing, I suppose. You seem headed toward his,
ah--" Owens paused delicately--"his fiancée's place. I gathered from
someone's remark, she lives in this area."

"Uh-huh."

"Charming girl. Poor Lombardi. She is so good a reason for not dying.
Please give her my regrets. Ah--a moment more, if you will."

"Yes?" Kintyre was turning to go; he stopped.

Owens flushed. "Don't misunderstand me. It's none of my business,
certainly. But I'd say at a guess I am a good fifteen years older than
you, and perhaps--I suppose I needn't advise you. But I do want to help
you. And her. See here, take her out tonight. I know they were living
together. There'll be too many memories at her home." He nodded, almost
awkwardly. "Pardon me. I have to go now. I'll be seeing you."

Kintyre stared after him.  The deuce you say! I didn't think you had a
genuine bone in your body. 

He glanced at his watch. He was late. His steps lengthened, a hollow
noise on the sunset pavement.

Past the elaborate south gate, down a few shop-lined blocks of
Telegraph Avenue, then left, slightly uphill, along a street of rooming
houses and small apartments. Margery's flat was here; or should you say
it had been Bruce's? He had gotten his mail, discreetly, at another
address (which must now be overrun with sight-seers)--but this was
Theirs.

Kintyre went upstairs. Margery opened her door at his buzz and closed
it again behind him.

Bruce had moved in with her during the Christmas holidays, half a year
ago now, but the interior was still hers, airily modern. Starting on
bluff and nerve and a jerkwater college's art degree, she had made
herself important to a local firm of decorators. Bruce would have lived
happily in a cave, if it had had book-shelves.

And yet somehow, thought Kintyre as he waited for Margery to
speak--somehow, she had reshaped the place around him. The piano he
played so well stood tuned for him; by now, most of the records were
ones which he had shown her--quietly, even unconsciously--were good to
have. She had matted and hung one of his inkbrush sketches, a view from
Albany Hill toward the Golden Gate, whose contours brought you back for
a second look.

And, of course, nearly all the books were his, and she had made an
offside room into a study for him. When you added it up, maybe only the
clothes and the parakeet were altogether her own.

 I never affected her like this , thought Kintyre.  Margery's
apartments always felt nervous before. Somehow Bruce made this one
peaceful. 

"Hello," he said, for she was evidently not going to speak first.

"Hi." She went over to a glass-topped coffee table and opened a
cigarette box. "Thanks for coming."

"No thanks needed," he said. "Could be you'll help me more than I will
you."

She looked at him for a moment, and he realized it had been a tactless
answer with too many unwanted implications. But then she picked up a
cigarette and flicked a lighter to it. "Drink?" she asked.

"Well--you drink too much, pony."

"Perhaps you don't drink enough," she said.

"I like the taste. I don't like being drunk."

"You're afraid to lose control, aren't you? Sometimes, Bob, I think
that explains you. To you, life is a ride on a tiger, and you've got to
keep the reins every minute."

"Let's have none of these bad amateur psychoanalyses," he said,
following her into the kitchen. He came up behind her and laid his
hands on her waist. "And let's not fight. I'm sorry, Marge. I'm sorry
for Bruce and for you."

Her head bent. "I know, Bob. Don't bother with words." She put the
cigarette to her lips, took a puff of smoke, blew it out, lowered the
cigarette, and twisted about between his hands. Her lips brushed his
cheek. "Go on, I'll mix. I want to keep busy."

He returned to the living room and prowled out his unrest for a few
minutes. The piano caught his gaze, he saw ruled bescribbled sheets and
went over to look. Margery found him thus, when she came in with two
glasses. "Sit down," she invited.

He regarded her through careful eyes, trying to judge her needs--and
her demands, for his own warning. She was a trifle on the short side,
her figure was good though tending to plumpness, and even he could
appreciate the effect of her simple green dress. Her face was broad,
with a slightly pug nose, very full lips, blue eyes under arched brows,
a few freckles: "pert" was the word. Reddish hair fell in a soft bob
just below the ears, which carried extravagant hoops.

He nodded at the piano. "So Bruce was composing again," he said.

"He was putting some poetry of his sister's to music, for some kind of
little theater deal she has in preparation, over in the City."

"How was he doing? I can't read music."

"Listen." She sat down at the piano. "I'm a lousy player myself, but
this will give you the idea."

Darkness was smoking in through the walls. She had to peer close to
see the notes; her hands stumbled on the keys. And yet she created
something gentle for him. Afterward the sounds tinkled in his memory
like rain in a young year.

She ended it with a destructive sweep of her knuckles across the board.
As the jangled basses fell silent, she said roughly: "That's all. He
never finished it."

"I wonder--" Kintyre remembered not to sit on the couch; he found a
chair. "I wonder if the world may not have lost even more than you and
I, Marge."

"I don't give a four-lettering damn about the world," she told him. She
crossed the room and snapped the light switch. The sudden radiance was
harsh to them, they both squinted. "I'd settle for having Bruce back."

"So would I. Naturally." He accepted the drink she offered and took a
long swallow. It was heavy on the whisky and light on the soda. "And
yet he was a scholar of unusual gifts. He even (he, my student) changed
my opinions about some aspects of Machiavelli's thought--emphasized the
idealism--he would, of course. I remember him quoting at me, '...  the
best fortress is to be found in the love of the people .' Isn't that
exactly the sort of thing which would stick in Bruce's mind?"

"'The best fortress.'" She stared into her glass. "It didn't help him
much, did it?"

Kintyre groped for another cigarette. He was smoking too much, he
thought; he'd have a tongue like a fried shoe sole tomorrow.

"How much do you know?" he asked.

"Only a little." The eyes she raised to him from the couch were
desperate. "Bob, what happened? Who did it to him?"

"I can't imagine," he said tonelessly.

"But--could it have been an accident, Bob? Maybe by mistake for someone
else--could it have been?"

"Perhaps."  I lie in my flapping front teeth. You don't use pliers on a
man without getting his name straight. 

"What was in the paper?" he asked. "I haven't seen."

"I don't know. I've been sitting here, ever since the policemen came.
They asked me if I could guess--God!" She emptied her glass in three
gulps.

"Could you?" he murmured. "I find it hard to conceive of anyone who
might hate Bruce."

"There was Gene Michaelis," she said. "I've been thinking and thinking
about him. He and his father. I met them once."

"Yes. I'd forgotten that. But Michaelis is a cripple now, remember? He
couldn't--"

"Bruce was called over to San Francisco. Someone called him on the
phone. Don't forget that. I can't forget it. I sat here while he
talked! He didn't say what it was about, he just left. Took the train.
He seemed excited, happy. Said he'd be out late and--" Margery's breath
snapped into her lungs. "Bob! Gene Michaelis, sitting there and waiting
for Bruce to come in--and those great ugly hands of his!"

Kintyre got up and went over to the couch. He sat down on its arm, next
to her. She felt blindly for his fingers; her own were cold.

"The police think Bruce was killed by professional criminals," he said.
"Can you imagine any reason why?"

"No." Her head shook. "No. Only Gene Michaelis--he swore that accident
was Bruce's fault. He almost had Bruce thinking so. You didn't see
Bruce then. You didn't see how he was affected by it, his old friend
biting at him like a dog, accusing him and his sister of--" She gave
Kintyre a blurred look. "That was how Bruce and I started to live
together. There was nothing else that would help him. He'd already
proposed to me. I didn't want to get married again--to him--to get
married. And he'd had no thought in his silly head of being anything
but a gentleman. Sure. I practically shanghaied him into bed with me.
What else would get that thing off his mind, Gene Michaelis lying on
the highway with both legs mashed? Gene was the only person who ever
hated Bruce, and just being hated nearly destroyed him. He couldn't
have made any other enemies--knowingly--he wasn't able to!"

 That's not quite true , thought Kintyre briefly.  Jabez Owens. 

Margery's voice had risen raggedly, and her nails bit his palm. He
stood up, pulling her after him by the wrist, and said: "Come on. We're
getting out of here."

"What?" She blinked at him, as if waking from sleep.

"You're tired and scared and lonesome and hungry, and none of it is
good. We're going out to dinner, and we'll talk about Bruce or whatever
else you want, but we're going out."

"I have to work tomorrow," she protested.

"Cannonballs! Tell 'em you're down with Twonk's Disease and need the
rest of the week off. Now grab your purse."

She followed him then, shivering. He drove her car slowly, to give her
and the drink within her time; he spoke of trivia.

She hung back a moment when he had parked outside one of Oakland's
first-class restaurants. "You can't afford this, Bob," she said.

"If you mention money once again, I'm going to wash your mouth out with
five-dollar bills," he snapped. "Old greasy ones."

She smiled. "You know," she said, "you aren't so unlike Bruce after
all. I remember how he also used to go out of his way for people. And
then once when I tried to praise him for it, he answered, 'Ah, I'm no
God damned saint.'"

"Sounds like Bruce," agreed Kintyre.

"He worshiped you," she said over the cocktails. "Did you know how
much? You were everything he could dream of being, a traveler, an
athlete, a scholar. He was even thinking of doing his military service
in the Navy, because that's where you were. And then you treated him as
an equal! You did more to make him happy than anyone else."

"I'd say you did," he parried, embarrassed.

"You know you pushed that affair." She was a little drunk, he saw, but
no harm in that: under better circumstances, he'd have called it a
happy drunk. "Remember how he and I first met? You were pub crawling
with him one evening last year after you got back from Europe. You ran
into me at the mulled-wine place; I was eating piroshki and looked very
unglamorous, but I thought I'd have some fun with you--oh, hell, Bob, I
thought there might be a chance to make you jealous--so I gave Bruce a
big play. And you were delighted!"

"I thought he needed a girl friend," he said. "There's more in life
than books and beer."

"You pander," she chuckled. "I'll bet you gloated when you found we
were living in sin."

He shrugged. "If you can call it sin. Actually, Bruce was a very
domestic type. I hoped you'd marry him."

"Sure," she said. "So I'm a very domestic type too, aren't I--ain't
I--Bob, I know you don't like to dance, and your dancing is awful, but
shall we try it just once before dinner?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Afterward, when brandy and coffee were completing the meal, she said:
"I'm still not sure if I was in love with Bruce or not. I always liked
him. I think I was beginning to love him."

"I should imagine it would be hard not to, under the circumstances."

"He was the first man I ever knew who was--(a)--" she ticked the
points off on her fingers--"interesting; which the solid citizens
back in Ohio were not, not to me anyway--(b) reliable, which the local
Bohemians are not."

"Please! Call me what else you will, but not a Berkeley Bohemian."

"You don't count. You're in a classification all by yourself.
'Reliable' was the wrong word. What do I mean? Faithful; steady;
loving. I guess that's it. Loving--not himself, like most of these
perpetual undergraduates; not--whatever you love, Bob, there must be
something but I've never found out what unless it's that sailboat of
yours. Bruce was loving of me. Loving all the world, but including me."

"You could call him tender," agreed Kintyre. "And yet he was a man. We
took some rough hikes and pack trips, during the years we knew each
other; and lately, after I got him interested in judo, he was doing
very well. In the course of these amusements I've seen him get damaged
now and then, sometimes rather badly. But he never admitted feeling any
pain."

"I guess you'd consider that a virtue," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

They parked in the hills, with the Eastbay cities like a galaxy of
stars below them, San Francisco an island universe across darkness. She
sighed and leaned against him. He wondered, dimly alarmed, why he had
come here.

"What are you going to do?" she asked him.

"Me? In the next few days, you mean? Oh, wind up his University work.
Call on his family; haven't seen them in a long time now. What about
you?"

"Carry on. What else is there?"

"I don't know," he said in his helplessness.

She turned to him and her fingers clawed at his coat. "Bob, don't take
me back to my place," she whispered. "Not tonight. Don't leave me
alone."

"Huh? But--"

"I know, I know, you're afraid I'll trap you--you conceited baboon. For
Christ's sake, let me sleep on your floor tonight, I won't touch a hair
of your sanctimonious head, but don't leave me alone!"

For the first time since he came to her, she began to cry.

       *       *       *       *       *

The telephone woke him. He turned over, not wholly oriented. There was
a woman sleeping beside him, wearing a pair of his pajamas. Where had
he picked her up? Wait. Margery!

She slept very much like a child, curled in a ball. The pale foggy
morning light touched a line of dried tears on her cheek. Kintyre
remembered how she had clung to him. Nothing else had happened; she
might have been his terrified young--No! That was a thought he clamped
off before it had formed. Let it be said only that he had been a friend
to her last night, and no more.

He was already padding into the kitchen, to pick up the phone before it
woke her. "Hello," he said.

"Dr. Kintyre? Moffat."

"Oh--oh, yes, the officer. What is it?"

"I wondered if you knew what's become of Miss Margery Towne. She isn't
at home." The voice had a bland none-of-my-business-but-I-do-need-help
overtone. Had he spotted her car outside the house?

"I might be able to locate her, if it's urgent," said Kintyre
cautiously; for it was in truth none of Moffat's business. "What's the
trouble?"

"Burglary."

"What?"

"A neighbor heard noises in her place last night. Stewed about it for
several hours, got no answer to the doorbell, finally called us. Our
man had to go up the fire escape and in a broken window. The thief's
route. It's a mess in there."

"The devil you say!"

"The devil it might be, sir. There were valuables, jewelry and so on,
lying in plain sight. They don't seem to've been touched. I suppose the
burglar was looking for something else. Have you any idea what it might
have been?"




3


Kintyre returned home about noon. Gerald Clayton caught him on the
phone with an invitation to lunch. Kintyre accepted readily. He had
his share of false pride, but not so much that he wouldn't let a
millionaire pick up the tab for a good meal.

The Fairhill Hotel sat in a swank area on the knees of the summer-brown
hills walling the Eastbay. Kintyre parked his hand-me-down among
mammaried Cadillacs and rump-sprung Plymouths and strolled into the
lobby.

Clayton rose from a chair. "Ah, there, Bob, how are you?" He shook
hands and moved toward the elevator. "Thought I'd have lunch sent up.
But if you'd like a drink beforehand--"

"No, thanks. Maybe a bottle of beer with the meal. Uh, what's the
occasion of all this?"

"We've things to talk about. Not too urgent, I guess, but I'm going to
be tied up over in the City." Clayton took Kintyre's arm. "Anyhow, I
felt like having some company for lunch."

He was fifty, still broad in the chest and erect in the spine, though
his custom-made suit worked hard to disguise a beginning paunch. His
grizzled auburn hair, brushed straight back, covered a long narrow
head; nose and chin jutted out of a creased sinewy face which must
once have been rather handsome. His eyes were deeply set, a darting
dragonfly blue, without any burden of glasses. Kintyre liked him in a
way, and felt sorry for him in a way, and sometimes wondered what the
man was really thinking about.

"I heard about young Lombardi," said Clayton in the elevator. "It's a
terrible thing."

"The police been after you too?" Kintyre's manner was abrupt; he didn't
feel like more emotional scenes.

"I had one interview. They weren't interested in my alibi at all. What
a disappointment: I had such a beautiful one. Witnesses to every waking
hour. I came to Berkeley about noon Saturday, had a long conference
with the manager of a local motorcycle agency, and a theater party
which lasted late. Sunday I was at church, then I played golf, in the
evening you were over for drinks, and Monday I went back to the City
and spent all day in the office."

The elevator stopped and they got out and went down a long corridor. A
little puzzled and annoyed, Kintyre said: "You protest too much."

Clayton opened his door. "I'm sorry," he answered. "I was trying to
lighten my own mood, and it came out sounding as if I were trying to be
funny. Bruce was a good kid."

He called room service. Kintyre's gaze strayed idly around the suite.
Actually, Clayton's Bay Area interests centered in San Francisco. For
the past several months he had kept an apartment there, while he went
through the preliminary maneuvers of establishing a local branch of
his import house. But the Eastbay was enough of a market in itself to
justify Clayton in frequently staying at the Fairhill for days on end.

Though his latest checking in had been on Thursday, the suite bore
little trace of him. His San Francisco rooms were just as impersonal;
Kintyre doubted that the New York penthouse or the luxurious flat in
Rome had been given more of a soul. There were four pictures, which
apparently went wherever Clayton did: a thin blonde woman, with a
washed-out kind of prettiness, who had been his first wife; and two
young men and a girl, the children she had given him. Otherwise,
nothing but business mail and business documents could be seen.

Oh, yes, Clayton smoked expensive cigars, and he had developed enough
patter to get by in social circles whose small talk included the opera
or Sartre's latest pronunciamento. But he had left no books lying
around, only a news magazine; no chess set or cards or half-completed
crossword puzzle; no private correspondence--well, if a man wanted to
be simply a cash register, it was his privilege.

But Clayton wasn't that either, thought Kintyre. Something of the
brash young salesman (where was it he started, Indianapolis? Some such
place) and the construction-gang foreman of worsening days and the
minor executive in a Midwestern wholesale house--something of what
Margery would label "Babbitt," with all of her own class's glibness in
labeling--remained in the transoceanic entrepreneur. Yes. But something
else must have developed too. Kintyre had never quite discovered what.
It was one reason he accepted most of Clayton's invitations.

"Okay, lunch will be on its way. Siddown, Bob."

Kintyre crossed his legs by the window and took out a cigarette.
Clayton chose a cigar. "Do the police have a lead on Bruce's murder?"
he asked.

"How should I know?"

"You were his best friend." Clayton's eyes locked with Kintyre's and
held steady. "The boy wasn't killed for fun. Somehow, he asked for it.
If we knew what he was doing in, say, the last week of his life--"

"Hm. You have a point. He was seeing a good deal of you also, wasn't
he?"

"Yes. That's the main reason I asked you over today, Bob. Perhaps
between us we could reconstruct most of his movements." Clayton
chuckled. "Not that I think we'd solve the crime ourselves or any such
nonsense, but organized information might help the police."

"Well--" Kintyre's memory walked backward into darkness. "Let me
think.... We were pretty busy till last week, with term's end and the
start of final exams. After that it gets irregular, if you're on a
faculty. You might have two exams on one day, and then none for three
days. So Bruce had a certain amount of leisure all week. Huh--a week
ago last Sunday--didn't he mention something about having gone across
the Bay to see you?"

"He did." Clayton looked at a note pad. "He came up to my apartment to
ask if I couldn't fix his older brother up with a job."

"So?"

"So I know that type. I'd met him, once before. I said no. Bruce got
mad when I wouldn't even interview this Guido character."

Kintyre smiled. "I know what you mean. It's a side of him that not many
people saw. He seldom lost his temper, but when it happened, it was
awesome. I hope you kept yours."

"It wasn't easy," said Clayton. "Actually, this was not the first time
we'd talked about the brother. There was once, some months ago--but I
don't recall the details."

"I believe I remember. It came up  à propos des bottes  in my office,
when you and he and I were discussing the Book of Witches, didn't it?
He mentioned having this brother who spoke Italian. You doubted Guido
would be qualified for any very responsible position. Yes, it comes
back to me now, you got almost obnoxiously smug about how you had
started from zero and so could anyone else."

"Less than zero in my case," said Clayton. His mouth twitched downward,
ever so faintly.

"It riled Bruce," said Kintyre. "But he got over his mad fast enough.
He was almost too reasonable for his own good."

"That sounds contradictory. I shouldn't think a really reasonable man
would ever get angry."

"I beg to differ. Some things, it's unreasonable not to get furious
about. Atrocities, including some governments whose existence is an
atrocity. Or getting back to Bruce, there was the Point Perro incident
several months ago."

"What was that?"

"Oh, nothing very important, I suppose. Point Perro is about sixty
miles south on the coast highway. Uninhabited, though it's on any good
map. Just a headland with a beach below, private property, fenced off,
but I happen to know the owner and have his permission to use it. As
isolated a spot, as primeval, as you'll find outside the High Sierras.
Bruce and I took our sleeping bags down there for a weekend of surf
casting. It has a deep-dropoff where the fish are apt to congregate
at high tide. We found somebody had been dynamiting them, which had
not only wasted and slaughtered fish but ruined some of the rock
formations. Bruce followed the tire tracks above the cliffs, saw that
the dynamiters had headed south, and insisted on following; He was
quite ready to beat up on them himself. All we actually accomplished
was to roust out the authorities, which spoiled our whole Saturday; but
it never occurred to him to do less."

Kintyre sighed. "I suspect that he crusaded himself to his death, in
just that manner."

"Let's return to our timetable," suggested Clayton. "Bruce stormed out
of my place that Sunday night, but he did agree to come back the next
afternoon. I said I'd think it over meanwhile, and he could bring Guido
to see me after all."

"What happened?"

"They came together. I saw right off Guido was hopeless. Quite an
amusing guy and all that, but once a bum always a bum. However, I made
polite noncommittal noises. Hell, maybe I'll open a night club someday,
and Guido can sing in it. That would be okay." Clayton drew on his
cigar. "I didn't see Bruce again till that little party here Thursday
night. Can you fill in the meantime?"

"Mmm--I had it all sorted out in my mind--yes. The Monday you speak of,
I introduced Jabez Owens to Bruce. We all talked for about an hour in
my office. Otherwise I think he just had a routine day, till he went
over to your apartment."

"Tuesday?"

"More routine, except that Owens showed up as agreed and lent him the
Borgia letters. Bruce took them home that night to look over."

"Oh, yes, those two were having quite an argument about it at the
party. What's the deal, anyway? I didn't quite follow. Talking to
Professor Ashwin most of the time, myself."

"Well, you know Owens is a writer, specializing in historical
nonfiction on the popular level."

"I've heard the name, is all."

Kintyre drew the long breath of an experienced lecturer.

"Owens was a best seller in the late 1930's," he said. "Since the
last official war, though, his sales have slipped. A couple of years
back, he recouped with a thing called  Magnificent Monster: The Life
and Times of Cesare Borgia . Its scholarship is superficial--to put
it kindly--but he has a flamboyant style and he dished up the sex and
sadism with a liberal hand. All the old libels on Lucrezia are there,
and so on. But it was a sensational seller even in hardback; the
presses had trouble meeting the demand for pocket editions; and now
Hollywood wants to film it as one of their more expensive superepics."

"So?" Clayton looked bored. "Good for him, but what has all this to do
with Bruce?"

"Give me time. Prior to writing the book, Owens spent some months in
Italy, allegedly doing research. He came back with certain letters he
claims to have tracked down in the archives of a noble family--letters
to and from Cesare, linking him with a cult of Satanists and all sorts
of picturesque orgies and abominations.

"The correspondence stirred up a bit of professional controversy. If
forged, it's skillfully done, and the noble family in question has been
well bribed and well rehearsed. I suspect that is the case, myself.
However, Owens has not unnaturally used the chance, not just to brag
himself up as a scholarly detective, as if he'd found another cache of
Boswell papers--he makes it pivotal to his whole book."

"Ah, yes. And now my Book of Witches manuscript--"

"Disproves it. The Book of Witches is unquestionably genuine, and
certain statements in it pretty well clinch matters.  La vecchia
religione  had been rooted out of the Romagna, even out of Liguria,
long before Cesare Borgia was as much as a gleam in his daddy's
apostolic eye. Therefore Owens' letters must be spurious. Either Owens
had them cooked, or Owens was taken for a sucker himself.

"When he established this, some time back, Bruce wrote to the man.
That was Bruce, of course. Give the poor chap a chance to back out
gracefully, before publishing the evidence that will smear him over
the landscape. Owens replied politely enough, asking for personal
discussions. And so he arrived Sunday a week ago, en route to Hollywood
from New York, and here he's been ever since."

"I shouldn't think he could keep the producer waiting like that," said
Clayton.

"He has no firm commitment yet: only an invitation to come out and talk
things over. A Piltdown-type scandal might cause the studio to back
off. After all, if they want to do a life of Borgia, it's in the public
domain. They don't have to pay Owens a nickel--unless, of course, they
use the witch-cult material, in which case they'll doubtless pay him a
fat sum and engage him as technical adviser to boot."

"Uh-huh." Clayton's eyes paled with thought.

"I keep getting sidetracked," complained Kintyre. "Also hoarse. I do
want that beer now."

"In a minute, Bob. Let's continue this session first. You say Bruce
took these letters home Tuesday night."

"Yes. I gathered he saw Owens again on Wednesday and returned them with
the remark that he saw no reason to change his mind. There must have
been quite an argument. I was at the dojo that evening, didn't see him
till Thursday night, as a matter of fact. Then, of course, you had him
and me and some of our colleagues--and Owens--up here for that stag
party."

"I collect scholars," grinned Clayton.

Kintyre wondered if it might not literally be true. In the upper levels
of the European business world, where Clayton spent half his time, a
man was not respected for his money alone; he would get further if he
could show some solid intellectual achievement. Clayton was hardly a
social climber, but he must know the practical value of such kudos.

Any rich oaf of an American could buy paintings. Clayton was a bit more
imaginative: he took up incunabula. And he invited specialists in, gave
them liquor and sandwiches, turned them loose on each other, and sat
around picking up the lingo.

 And what's wrong with that?  thought Kintyre.  Any Renaissance
dignitary patronized artists and scholars in much the same way, for
much the same reasons. So the Renaissance had its Leonardo, Rafael,
Michelangelo--We throw our creative people out into the market place
to peddle themselves to the general public. What do we have? Rock 'n'
Roll. 

He jerked back to awareness. The other man was speaking: "--chemical
tests. Owens said he wasn't going to let priceless relics be destroyed.
It sounded phony to me."

"That was a real dogfight those two had." Kintyre shook his head
admiringly.

"Never mind that now. Have you any information on Bruce's later
movements?"

"Why, Friday he and I were both working hard. Saturday too he must
have been. Yes, Friday afternoon was the last time I saw Bruce alive.
We only said hello in passing. Margery Towne tells me he was home that
evening and Saturday afternoon, otherwise apparently at the University."

"And that's all we can find out?" Clayton grimaced. "Not a hell of a
lot, is it? Unless Miss Towne can tell--"

"One more thing," said Kintyre. "It may not be relevant. But her
apartment was burgled last night."

The cigar dropped from Clayton's mouth. He bent over to pick it up,
jerkily. His movements smoothed as Kintyre watched; when he raised
himself and ground out the butt, his craggy face was under control.

"Surprised?" murmured Kintyre.

"Yes. Of course. What happened? What was taken?"

"That's the odd part. Nothing she knew of. Someone had broken in and
made a hooraw's nest; but he, she, or it hadn't taken any silverware or
jewelry, nothing."

"Uh." Clayton looked at his hands, folded in his lap, then back again,
sharply. "How about papers?"

"We thought of that. The desks and drawers had been rooted through, all
right, but nothing seemed to be missing."

"Would she know all about Bruce's papers?" Clayton fired the query like
a policeman. "Don't stall, you damned Edwardian. I know she was his
mistress."

"I don't happen to like that word in that particular connection," said
Kintyre gently. "However--she hadn't seen all of Bruce's letters and
notes. He kept them in a couple of cardboard filing boxes. They didn't
seem even to have been opened, though."

"Did you look in to make sure?"

"No. Should we have?"

"I guess not." Clayton rubbed his chin. "No, I wouldn't bother. Because
the burglar was evidently looking for something he thought might be in
the apartment, but which wasn't. Something that might be in a desk or
a bureau drawer, but was too large to fit into a filing box or a--any
such thing."

"As what?" challenged Kintyre.

He had already guessed the answer: "The Book of Witches is a fairly big
volume."

Kintyre nodded. He was on the point of repeating what Margery had said
to him, when they stood in the ruins after the police had gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

She poured herself a drink with shaking hands. A sunbeam splashed
pale copper in her still tousled hair. She said: "That bastard. That
crawling bastard. Why didn't I tell the cops?"

"Who?"

"Owens, of course! Who d'you think would come sneaking in here? What
might we have of any use to anybody, except that old book Bruce was
studying--the one that could torpedo Owens and his big movie sale and
his precious reputation. Owens came in here to try and find that book
and take it and burn it!"

She tossed off her drink neat, poured another and glared at Kintyre.
"Well?" she snarled.

"Well, it's a serious accusation to make," he replied.

"Serious my left buttock! You know what that snake already tried to
do? He tried to bribe Bruce! Bruce told me about it. Friday after
that stag party, Owens came to his office and talked all around the
subject and--oh, he was pious-sounding enough about it, he knows his
euphemisms. But he offered Bruce five thousand dollars to suppress
his findings about witches in Italy. Five thousand bucks--Christ, the
movies can pay him a quarter of a million!"

"I take it, then, you're insulted by the size of the bribe."

The attempt to jolly her didn't come off. She said viciously: "Bruce
boiled over. He was still boiling when he came home. He told Owens
to his face, he'd write an article about his research the minute he
returned from your pack trip--he'd inform the newspapers, so the whole
public could know the truth--Bob!"

It was a scream in her throat.

"What is it?" he cried, turning toward her in alarm.

"Bob--do you think.... Oh, no, Bob!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"What's the matter?" asked Clayton.

Kintyre shook himself. "Nothing. The manuscript is still with us,
naturally," he said in a flat voice. "Bruce kept it in his office. I
stopped by today and locked it in a safe."

"Owens--"

"Look here," said Kintyre angrily, "I went through this once before,
with Miss Towne. I don't hold with talebearing. The police are
competent, and have the essential facts already. Unless more evidence
turns up to change my mind, I see no reason to run to them with any
sordid little story of academic intrigue which can't even be proved."

 However , his brain continued,  while I'm in no position to pay fees,
Trig isn't very busy these days. He may enjoy looking into the recent
movements of a murder suspect. 

There was a knock on the door and a bellboy wheeled in lunch.




4


Not until evening was Kintyre free to cross the bridge into San
Francisco. He had spent hours on Bruce's uncorrected papers, and talked
with Yamamura, who said he would sniff around, and he had called
Margery on the phone to see if she was all right.

"Come over and take potluck, Bob," she said. He sensed loneliness.
But--hell's boiling pots, she made him feel cluttered!

"I'm afraid I can't," he evaded. "Commitments. But take it easy, huh?
Go visit someone, go have a cup of espresso, don't sit home and nest on
your troubles. I'll see you soon."

He poured himself a small drink after hanging up and tossed it off.
Then he changed into his darkest suit and got the car rolling.
Personally, he would not have placarded a loss on his clothes, but
Bruce's parents were from the Old World.

As he hummed along the freeway and over the great double span of the
bridge (Bruce must have been carried dead in the opposite direction,
wedged in a corner so the tollgate guard would think him merely asleep;
doubtless the police were checking the memories of all night shift
men) Kintyre rehearsed the career of the Lombardis. Bruce was the only
one he had really known, though he had been over there for dinner a
few times. The parents had been very respectful, innocently happy that
their son should be friends with a Doctor of Philosophy. His mother
made good pasta....

There wasn't much to remember. Angelo Lombardi was a Genoese sailor.
Chronic hard times were not improved when his son Guido came along.
Nor did he see much of his young wife. (Did Maria's years of being
mostly alone in a dingy tenement, with nobody to love but one little
boy, account for what Guido had become?) In 1930 the family arrived
as immigrants at San Francisco. Here Angelo worked in the commercial
fishing fleet; here Bruce and the daughter were born; here he
saved enough money to buy his own boat; here he lost it again in a
collision--by God, yes, it had been a collision with Peter Michaelis'
single craft. Feeling the years upon him, Angelo used the insurance
money to start a restaurant. It had neither failed nor greatly
prospered: it gave him a living and little more.

Yet Angelo Lombardi had remained a man with hope.

Kintyre turned off at the first ramp, twisted through the downtown
area, and got onto Columbus Avenue and so to North Beach. Hm, let's
see--a minor street near the Chinatown fringe--uh-huh.

The sky was just turning purple when he stopped in front of the place:
Genoa Café set in a two-story frame building perpetrated, with bays and
turrets, right after the 1906 fire. It was flanked by a Chinese grocery
store, full of leathery fragrances, and a Portuguese Baptist mission. A
sign on the door said closed. Well, the old people would be in no mood
for discussing the various types of pizza tonight.

Yellow light spilled from the upper windows. Kintyre found the door to
the upstairs apartment and rang the bell.

A street lamp blinked to life, a car went by, a grimy urchin watched
him impassively from a doorway across the road. He felt much alone.

He heard feet coming down the stairs, a woman's light quick tread.
Expecting Maria Lombardi, he took off his hat and bowed in Continental
style when the door opened. He stopped halfway through the gesture and
remained staring.

 Morna , he thought, and he stood on the schooner's deck as it heeled
to the wind, and she was grasping the mainmast shrouds with one
hand, crouched on the rail and shading her eyes across an ocean that
glittered. Her yellow hair blew back into his face, it smelled of
summer.

"Yes?"

Kintyre shook himself, like a dog come out of a deep hurried river.
"I'm sorry," he stammered. "I'm sorry. You startled me, looked like
someone I used to--" He pulled the chilly twilight air into his lungs,
until he could almost feel them stretch. One by one, his muscles
relaxed.

"Miss Lombardi, isn't it?" he tried again. "I haven't seen you for a
couple of years, and you wore your hair differently then. I'm Robert
Kintyre."

"Oh, yes. I remember you well," she said. Her mouth turned a little
upward, its tautness gentling. "Bruce's professor. He spoke of you so
often. It's very kind of you to come."

She stood aside to let him precede her. His hand brushed hers
accidentally in the narrow entrance. Halfway up the stairs, he realized
he was holding the fist clenched.

 What is this farce?  he asked himself angrily. Nothing more than
straight blonde hair, worn in bangs across the forehead and falling
to the shoulders. Now in the full electric light he could see
that it wasn't even the same hue, a good deal darker than Morna's
weather-bleached mane. And Corinna Lombardi was a mature woman--young,
he recalled Bruce's going over to the City last month for her
twenty-second birthday party--but grown. Morna would always be thirteen.

Corinna had been nineteen when he saw her last, still living here and
working in the café. That was at a little farewell dinner the Lombardis
had given him, before he departed for his latest year in Italy. They
had wanted him to look up Angelo's brother Luigi, the one who had made
a success in the old country as a secret service man. Kintyre had
visited Luigi a few times, finding him a pleasant sort with scholarly
inclinations, most interested in his brilliant nephew Bruce, with whom
he corresponded.

At any rate, Kintyre had had too much else to think about to pay much
attention to a quiet girl. By the time he returned, as Bruce told him,
she had left home after a spectacular quarrel with her parents. That
was soon repaired--it had only been a declaration of independence--but
she had kept her own job and her own apartment since then.

The rambling of his mind soothed him. At the time he did not realize
that, down underneath, his mind was telling itself about Corinna
Lombardi. It decided that she had few elements of conventional
prettiness. She was tall, and her figure was good except that the
shoulders were too wide and the bust too small for this decade's
canons. Her face was broad, with high cheek-bones and square jaw and
straight strong nose; it had seen a good deal of sun. Her eyes were
greenish-gray under heavy dark brows, her mouth was wide and full,
her voice was low. She wore a black dress, as expected, and a defiant
bronze pin in the shape of a weasel.

Then Kintyre had emerged on the landing, and Angelo Lombardi--thickset,
heavy-faced, balding--engulfed his hand in an enormous sailor's paw.
"Come in, sir, please to come in and have a small glass with us."

Maria Lombardi rose for the Doctor of Philosophy. Her light-brown
hair and clear profile told whence her children had their looks; he
suspected that much of the brains had come from her too. "How do you
do, Professor Keen-teer. We thank you for coming."

He sat down, awkwardly. Overstuffed and ghastly, the living room
belonged to a million immigrants of the last generation, who had built
from empty pockets up to the middle class. But families like this would
eat beans oftener than necessary for twenty years, so they could save
enough to put one child through college. Bruce had been the one.

"I just came to express my sympathy," said Kintyre. He felt himself
under the cool green appraisal of Corinna's eyes, but could not think
of words less banal. "Can I do anything to help? Anything at all?"

"You are very kind," said old Lombardi. He poured from what was
evidently his best bottle of wine. "Everyone has been so kind."

"Do you know what his room was like, the past half of a year,
Professor?" asked Maria. "He never invited us there."

 I rather imagine not , thought Kintyre wryly. "Nothing unusual," he
said. "I'll bring you his personal effects as soon as I can."

"Professor," said Lombardi. He leaned his bulk forward very slowly. The
glass shivered in his fingers. "You knew my son so well. What do you
think happen to him?"

"I only know what the police told me," said Kintyre.

Maria crossed herself. She closed her eyes, and he did not watch her
moving lips; that conversation didn't concern him.

"My son he was murdered," said Lombardi in an uncomprehending voice.
"Why did they murder him?"

"I don't know," insisted Kintyre. "The police will find out."

Corinna left her chair and came around to stand before the men. It was
a long stride, made longer by wrath. She put her hands on her hips and
said coldly:

"Dr. Kintyre, you're not naïve. You must know murder is one of the
safest crimes there is to commit. What's the actual probability that
they'll ever learn who did it, when they claim they haven't even a
motive to guide them?"

Kintyre couldn't help bristling a trifle. She was tired and filled with
grief, but he had done nothing to rate such a tone. He clipped off his
words: "If you think you have a clue, Miss Lombardi, you should take it
to the authorities, not to me."

"I did," she said harshly. "They were polite to the hysterical female.
They'll look into it, sure. And when they see he has an alibi--as he
will!--they won't look any further."

Maria stood up. "Corinna!" she exclaimed. " Basta, figliolaccia! "

The girl wrenched free of her mother's hand. "Oh, yes," she said,
"that's how it was with the policeman too. With everybody. Don't pick
on the poor cripple. Haven't you been enough of a jinx to him? Don't
you see, that's exactly what he thinks! That's why he killed Bruce!"

An inner door opened, and a man entered the room. He was thirty
years old, with a strong burly frame turning a little fat. He was
good-looking in a dark heavy-lipped way, his hair black and curly, his
eyes a restless rusty brown, nose snubbed and jaw underslung. He wore
tight black trousers with a silver stripe, a cummerbund, a white silk
shirt open halfway down his chest; he carried a cased guitar under one
arm.

"Oh," he said. "I thought somebody'd come. Hello, Doc."

"Hello, Guido," said Kintyre, not getting up. He had nothing personally
against Bruce's older brother, who had been quite a charming devil
the few casual times they met. However--" He who does not choose the
path of good, chooses to take the path of evil ," said Machiavelli's
 Discourses : and Guido had been an anchor around more necks than one.

"Don't get in a bind, kitten," he said to his sister. "I could hear you
making with the grand opera a mile upwind."

She whirled about on him, shaking, and said: "You could let him get
cold before you went back to that club to sing your dirty little songs."

"My girl, you speak the purest B.S., as Bruce would have been the
first to tell you." Guido smiled, took out a cigarette one-handed and
stuck it in his mouth. "I was out of town the whole weekend, just when
the cats go real crazy. If I don't make with it tonight, the man will
ignite me, and what good would that do Bruce?" He flipped out a book of
matches, opened it and struck one, all with the same expert hand.

Corinna's gaze went from face to face, and a beaten look crept into it.
"Nobody cares," she whispered. "Just nobody cares."

She sat down. Lombardi twisted his fingers, looking wretched; Maria
folded herself stiffly into a chair; Guido leaned on the doorjamb and
blew smoke.

Kintyre felt, obscurely, that it depended on him to ease the girl. He
said: "Please, Miss Lombardi. We don't mean that. But what can we do?
We'd only get in the way of the police."

"I know, I know." She got it out between her teeth, while she looked
at the floor. "Let George do it. Isn't that the motto of this whole
civilization? Someday George isn't going to be around to do it, and
we'll have gotten too flabby to help ourselves."

It paralleled some of his own thinking so closely that he was startled.
But he said, "Well, you can't declare a vendetta, can you?"

"Oh, be quiet!" She looked up at him with a smoldering under her brows.
"Of course I don't mean that. But I know who must have done it, and
I know he'll have some kind of story, and no one will look past that
story, because he seems like such a pathetic case. And he isn't! I know
Gene and Peter Michaelis. They got what was coming to them!"

"Too much!" roared Lombardi. "Now you be still!" She ignored him. Her
eyes would not release Kintyre's.

"Well?" she said after a moment.

He wondered if it was only her misery which clawed at him, or if she
was always such a harpy. He said with great care: "Well, in theory any
of us could be guilty. I might have done it because Bruce was--going
around with a girl I used to know. Or Guido here--jealousy? A quarrel?
I assume we have merely his word he was out of town on Saturday and
Sunday. Shall we also ask the police to check every minute of his
weekend?"

The man in the doorway flushed. "Dig that," he said slowly. "So you're
going to--"

"Nothing of the sort," rapped Kintyre. "I was trying to show how a
private suspicion is no grounds for--"

Guido took a long drag on his cigarette, snuffed it in a horrible
souvenir ashtray, and left without a word. They heard his footfalls go
down the stairs.

"I am  so  sorry, Mister Professor," faltered Lombardi.

" Niente affatto, signor. " Kintyre stood up. "All of you are worn
out." He essayed a smile at Corinna. "You were echoing some of my own
principles. We pessimists ought to stick together."

She did not even turn her face toward him. But her profile was one he
could imagine on Nike of Samothrace, the Victory which strides in the
wind.

"I've always thought principles should be acted on," she told him
sullenly.

"Corinna!" said Maria. Her daughter paid no attention.

Kintyre took his leave in a confusion of apologies. When he stood alone
on the dusky street, he whistled. That had been no fun.

But now it was over with. He could let things cool down for a week
or so, then deliver Bruce's possessions, and say farewell with an
insincere promise to "look you up soon, when I get the chance." And
there would be an end of that.

But he had thought for a heartbeat she was Morna come home to him.

His fingers were wooden, hunting for a cigarette; he dropped the pack
on the sidewalk before getting one out. He could feel the first onset
of the horror, moving up along the channels of his brain.

Sometimes, he thought with a remnant of coolness, sometimes distraction
could head off the trouble. If he could get involved in something
outside himself, and yet important to himself, so that his whole
attention was engaged, the horror might retreat.

He yanked smoke into his lungs, blew it forth, tossed the cigarette to
the paving and stamped on it. Then he went into the grocery. There was
a public phone on the wall, he leafed through the directory until he
found the name.

 Michaelis Peter C. 




5


He didn't call ahead, but drove on down. When he parked and got out, he
saw Coit Tower whitely lit above him, on the steep art-colony heights
of Telegraph Hill. Not many blocks away was Fisherman's Wharf, a lot of
tourist pits and a few authentic restaurants. But here he stood in a
pocket of slum, before a rotting rattrap tenement. A single street lamp
a block away cast a purulent light at its own foot. Elsewhere the night
flowed. He heard the nearby rattle of a switch engine, pushing freight
cars over iron; a battered cat slunk past him; otherwise he was alone.

He walked across to the house with forced briskness, struck a match and
hunted through several grimy scrawls on mailboxes before Michaelis'
name came to him. Number 8.

The main entrance was unlocked. The hall, dusty in threadbare
carpeting, held dim electric bulbs. He heard noises through some of the
doors, and smelled stale cooking. A glance told him Number 8 must be
upstairs. He climbed, only now starting to wonder just how he planned
to do his errand.

Or what his errand was, if it came to that.

Bruce had never spoken much to him of Gene Michaelis. They had been
children together on the waterfront. Bruce was a year younger,
doubtless a quiet bookish sort, teacher's pet, even then--but
apparently unaffected by it, so that he was not disliked. Still, he
must have been lonely. And Gene was a rough-and-tumble fisherman's
son. Nevertheless, one of those odd fierce boy-friendships had existed
between them. Bruce had probably dominated it, without either of them
realizing the fact.

In time they drifted apart. Gene had left high school at sixteen, Bruce
had said, after some whoopdedo involving a girl; he had tramped since
then, dock walloper, fry cook, bouncer, salesman--he found it easy to
lie about his age. Now and then he revisited the Bay Area. His return
from Navy service had been last summer, when Kintyre was still in
Europe; Kintyre had never actually met him. Gene had looked up Bruce in
Berkeley, and through Bruce renewed an acquaintance with Corinna, and
after that Gene had moved over to San Francisco.

Number 8. Kintyre heard television bray through the thin panels. He
looked at his watch. Past ten o'clock.  Oh, hell, let's play by ear. 
He knocked.

Feet shuffled inside. The door opened. Kintyre looked slightly upward,
into a lined heavy face with a thick hook nose and small black eyes and
a gray bristle of hair. The man had shoulders like a Mack truck, and
there wasn't much of a belly on him yet. He wore faded work clothes.
The smell of cheap wine was thick around him.

"What do you want?" he said.

"Mr. Michaelis? My name's Kintyre. I'd like to talk to you for a few
minutes."

"We're not buying any, and if you're from the finance company you
can--" Michaelis completed the suggestion.

"Neither," said Kintyre mildly. "Call me a sort of ambassador."

Puzzled, Michaelis stood aside. Kintyre walked into a one-room
apartment with a curtained-off cooking area. A wall bed was opened out,
unmade. There were a few chairs, a table with a half-empty gallon of
red ink on it, a television set, a tobacco haze, much dust and many old
newspapers on the floor.

Gene Michaelis occupied a decaying armchair. He was a young,
black-haired version of his father, and would have been rather handsome
if he smiled. He wore flannel pajamas which had not been washed for
some time. His legs stuck rigidly out before him, ending in shoes
whose heels rested on the floor. Two canes leaned within reach. He was
smoking, drinking wine, and watching the screen; he did not stop when
Kintyre entered.

"I'm sorry the place is such a mess," said Peter Michaelis. He spoke
fast, with an alcoholic slur. "It's kind of hard. My wife's dead, and
my son has to live with me and he can't do nothing. When I get home
from looking for work, all day looking for a job, I'm too tired to
clean up." He made vague dusting motions over a chair. "Siddown. Drink?"

"No, thanks." Kintyre lowered himself. "I came--"

"I was already down in the world when this happened last year," said
Michaelis. "I owned my own boat once. Yes, I did. The  Ruthie M . But
then she got sunk, and there wasn't enough insurance to get another,
and well, I ended up as a deckhand again. Me, who'd owned my own boat."
He sat and blinked muzzily at his guest.

"I'm sorry to hear that. But--"

"Then my wife died. Then my son come back from the Navy, and got
himself hurt real bad. Both legs gone, above the knees. It took all the
money I had to pay the doctors. I quit work to take care of my son. He
was in a bad way. When he got so he could look after himself a little,
I went looking for my job back, only I didn't get it. And since then I
haven't found nothing."

"Well," said Kintyre, "there's the welfare, and rehabilitation--"

Gene turned around and said a short obscenity.

"That's what they'll do for you," he added. "They found me a job
basket weaving.  Basket weaving!  Kee-rist, I was a gunner's mate in
the Navy. Basket weaving!"

"I'm a Navy man myself," ventured Kintyre. "Or was, after Pearl Harbor.
Destroyers."

"What rank were you? A brown-nosing officer, I'll bet."

"Well--"

"A brass hat. Kee-rist." Gene Michaelis turned back to his television.

"I'm sorry," muttered his father. "It's not so easy for him, you know.
He was as strong and lively a young fellow as you could hope to see.
God, six months ago! Now what's he got to do all day?"

"I'm not offended," said Kintyre.  I would, in fact, be inclined to
take offense only at a system of so-called education which has so
little discipline left in it that its victims are unable to do more
than watch this monkey show when the evil days have come. But that is
not of immediate relevance. 

"What did you come for?" Peter Michaelis lifted his bull head and his
voice crested: "You know of a job?" He sagged back again. "No. No, you
wouldn't."

"I'm afraid not," said Kintyre. "I came as--I came to help you in
another way."  Maledetto! How much like Norman Vincent Peale is one man
allowed to sound? But I can't think of anything else. 

"Yes?" Michaelis sat erect; even Gene twisted half around.

"You know the Lombardi family, of course."

"Do we know them?" spat Michaelis. "I wish to hell we didn't!"

"Have you heard that the son, Bruce, is dead?"

"Uh-huh," said Gene. He turned down the sound of his program and added
with a certain pleasure: "Looks like there's some justice in the world
after all."

"Now, wait," began Kintyre.

Gene turned more fully to face the visitor. His eyes narrowed. "What
have you got to do with them?" he asked.

"I knew Bruce. I thought--"

"Sure. You thought he was God's little bare-bottomed baby angel. I
know. Everybody does. It took a long time to get down past all those
layers of holy grease on him. I did."

"You know what the old man done to me?" shouted Peter Michaelis. "He
rammed me. Sent my boat to the bottom in 1945. He murdered two of my
crew. They drowned. I could of been drowned myself!"

Kintyre remembered Bruce's account. A freakish, sudden fog had been
blown down a strong wind. Such impossibilities do happen now and then.
The boats blundered together and sank. The Coast Guard inquiry found
it an act of God; Michaelis tried to sue, but the case was thrown out
of court. Then, for the sake of their sons, Peter and Angelo made a
grudging peace.

What had happened lately must have brought all the old bitterness back,
with a dozen years' interest added.

"Shut up," said Gene. He was drunk too, Kintyre saw, but cold drunk, in
control of everything except his emotions. "Shut up, Pete. It was an
accident. Why should he ruin his own business?"

"He got him a restaurant out of it," mumbled Michaelis. "What have we
got?"

"Look here," said Kintyre, not very truthfully. "I'm a neutral party. I
didn't have to come around here, and there's nothing in it for me. But
will you listen?"

"If you'll listen too," said Gene. He poured himself another glass.
"Huh. I know what the Lombardis been telling you about me. Let me tell
you about them."

Somewhere in the back of Kintyre's mind, a thin little warning whistle
blew. He grabbed the arms of his chair and hung on tight. There was no
time now to add up reasons why; he knew only that if he let Gene talk
freely about Corinna, there was going to be trouble.

"Never mind," he said coldly. "I'm not interested in that aspect. I
came here because I don't think you murdered Bruce Lombardi and the
police may think you did."

That stopped them. Peter Michaelis looked up, his face turning a
drained color. Gene puckered his lips, snapped them together, and went
blank of expression. His dark gaze did not waver from Kintyre's, and he
said quite steadily: "What are you getting at?"

"Bruce was called over to the City by someone last Saturday evening,"
said Kintyre. "His body was found Monday morning. You know very well
that if you'd called him, offering to patch up the quarrel, he'd have
come like a shot. Where were you two this weekend?"

"Why--" Peter Michaelis' voice wobbled. "I was home all day
Saturday--housework. Went out for a drink at night--church Sunday
morning, yeah, then came back for a nap. Hey, I played pinochle down in
front of the warehouse that evening with--" His words trailed off.

"Nobody glanced in, then?" asked Kintyre. "No one who could verify that
Bruce wasn't lying bound and gagged?"

"Why--I--"

"Hey!" Gene Michaelis surged to his feet. It was a single swinging
leap, propelled upward by his arms. His aluminum legs spraddled,
seeking clumsily for a foothold. Somehow he got one of his canes and
leaned on it.

"What business is it of yours, anyway?" he snarled.

 Can I tell you that I don't know?  thought Kintyre.  Can I tell you
I'm here because a girl I'd scarcely seen before now wanted me to come? 

 Hardly. 

He leaned back with strained casualness and said: "I want to make
peace between your two families. Call it a gesture toward Bruce. I
admit I liked him. And he never stopped liking you, Gene.

"If you keep on spewing hatred at the Lombardis as you have been, the
police are going to get very interested in your weekend. Where were
you?"

Gene hunched his shoulders. "None of your God damn business."

"I take it you weren't home, then."

"No, I was not. If you want to ask any more, let's see your Junior
G-man badge."

Kintyre sighed. "All right." He stood up. "I'll go. The cops won't be
so obliging, if you don't cooperate with them."

He looked past Gene, to the window. It was a hole into total blackness.
He wondered if that had been the last sight Bruce saw--of all this
earth of majesty, a single smeared window opening on the dark.

"I didn't do it," said Gene. "We didn't." He showed his teeth. "But I
say three cheers for whoever did. I'd like to get the lot of 'em here,
that sister now--"

"Hold on!" The violence of his tone shivered Kintyre's skull. Afterward
it was a wonder to him, how rage had leaped up.

Gene swayed for a moment. An unpleasant twisting went along his lips.
Beside Kintyre, the father also rose, massive and watchful.

"So you'd like some of that too, would you?" said Gene. "You won't get
it. She's only a whore inside. Outside, she's like a goddam nun. You
know what we call that kind where I come from? Pri--"

"I'm going," said Kintyre harshly. "I prefer to be among men."

Unthinkingly, he had chosen the crudest cut. He saw that at once. A
physical creature like Gene Michaelis, whose sexual exploits must have
been his one wall against every hidden inadequacy, must now be feeling
nearly unmanned.

Gene roared. His cane lifted and whistled down.

It could have been a head-smashing blow. Kintyre stepped from it and it
jarred against the floor. The cane broke across. Gene rocked forward on
his artificial legs, his hands reaching out for Kintyre's throat.

Kintyre planted himself passively, waiting. He didn't want to hit a
cripple. Nor would fists be much use against all that bone and meat.

As Gene lunged, Kintyre slipped a few inches to one side, so the
clutching arm went above his shoulder. He took it in his hands, his
knee helped the great body along, and Gene Michaelis crashed into the
wall.

As the cloud of plaster exploded, Kintyre saw the old man attack. Peter
Michaelis was still as strong as a wild ox, and as wrathful.

Kintyre could have killed him with no trouble.

Kintyre had no wish to. Anyone could be driven berserk, given enough
low-grade alcohol on top of enough wretchedness. He waited again, until
the fisherman's fist came about in a round-house swing. There was time
enough for a judo man to get out of the way, catch that arm, spin the
opponent halfway around, and send him on his way. It would have been
more scientific to throttle him unconscious, but that would have taken
a few seconds and Gene was crawling back to his feet.

"Let's call it a day," said Kintyre. "I'm not after a fight."

"You--filthy--bastard." Gene tottered erect. Blood ran down one side of
his mouth; the breath sobbed in and out of him; but he came.

On the way he picked up the other cane.

He tried to jab with it. Kintyre took it away from him. As simple as
that--let the stick's own motion carry it out of the opponent's hand.
Gene bellowed and fell. Kintyre rapped him lightly on the head, to
discourage him.

Someone was pounding on the door. "What's going on in there? Hey,
what's going on?"

"I recommend you cooperate with the police," said Kintyre. "Wherever
you were this weekend, Gene, tell them. They'll find out eventually."

He opened the window, went through, and hung for a moment by his hands.
Father and son were sitting up, not much damaged. Kintyre straightened
his elbows and let go. It wasn't too long a drop to the street, if you
knew how to land.

He went to his car and got in. There was no especial sense of victory
within him: a growing dark feeling of his own momentum, perhaps. He had
to keep moving, the horror was not yet asleep.

 All right, Corinna , he thought as the motor whirred to life. It was a
bit childish, but he was not in any normal state.  I did your job. Now
I'll do one for myself. 




6


When Bruce last mentioned Guido to Kintyre, not so long ago, the name
of the Alley Cat occurred. Presumably Guido was still singing there.
Kintyre looked up the address in a drugstore phone book. It was back
in North Beach, of course, in a subdistrict which proved to be quiet,
shabby, and tough.

There was no neon sign to guide him, only a flight of stairs downward
to a door with the name painted on it. Once past a solid-looking
bouncer, he found a dark low-ceilinged room, decorated with abstract
murals and a few mobiles. The bar was opposite him. Otherwise the walls
were lined with booths, advantageously deep, and the floor was packed
with tables. Most of the light came from candles on these, in old
wax-crusted Chianti bottles. Patronage was thin this evening, perhaps
a dozen couples and as many stags. They ran to type: either barely
of drinking age or else quite gray, the men with their long hair and
half-open blouses more ornate than most of the women, a few obvious
faggots, a crop-headed girl in a man's shirt and trousers holding hands
with a more female-looking one.

Hipsters, professionally futile; students, many of whom would never
leave the warm walls of academe; a Communist or two, or a disillusioned
ex-Communist who had not found a fresh illusion, perpetually refighting
the Spanish Civil War; self-appointed intellectuals who had long ago
stopped learning or forgetting; dabblers in art or religion or the
dance; petty racketeers, some with a college degree but no will to make
use of it--Kintyre stopped enumerating. He knew these people. One of
his strictures on Margery was her weakness for such a crowd. They bored
him.

Guido sat on a dais near the bar, draped around a high stool with a
glass of beer handy. His fingers tickled the guitar strings, they
responded with life, he bore his brother's musical gifts. His voice was
better than Bruce's:

    "-- Who lived long years ago.
    He ruled the land with an iron hand
    But his mind was weak and low --"

Despite himself, Kintyre was amused to find such an old acquaintance
here. He wondered if Guido knew the author.

He threaded between the tables till he reached one close by the
platform. Guido's glance touched him, and the curly head made a
half-nod of recognition.

Since he would be overcharged anyway, Kintyre ordered an import beer
and settled back to nurse it. The ballad went on to its indelicate
conclusion. Guido ended with a crashing chord and finished his brew at
a gulp. There was light applause and buzzing conversation.

Guido leaned back against the wall. His eyelids drooped and he drew
wholly different sounds from the strings. Talk died away. Not many here
would know this song. Kintyre himself didn't recognize it before the
singer had embarked on the haunting refrain. Then Guido looked his way,
smiling a little, and he knew it was a gift to him.

    " Quant' è bella giovinezza
      Che si fugge tuttavia!
    Di doman' non c' è certezza:
      Chi vuol esse lieto, sia! "

Lorenzo the Magnificent had written it, long ago in the days of pride.

When he finished, Guido said, " Entr'acte ," laid down his guitar, and
came over to Kintyre's table. He stood with his left hand on his hip,
fetching out a cigarette and lighting it with the right.

"Thanks," said Kintyre.

Guido continued the business with the cigarette, taking his time.
Kintyre returned to his beer.

"Well," said Guido finally. He grinned. "You're a cool one. I mean in
every sense of the word. Let's find a booth."

They sat down on opposite sides of the recessed table. A handsome young
waitress lit the candle for them. "On me," said Guido.

"Same, then," said Kintyre, emptying his glass.

Guido squirmed. "How d'you like the place?" he asked.

Kintyre shrugged. "It's a place."

"This Parisian bistro deal is only on slack nights. Weekends, we got a
combo in here."

"I think I prefer the bistro."

"I guess you would."

They fell back into silence. Guido smoked raggedly. Kintyre felt no
need for tobacco; the implacable sense of going somewhere overrode his
self.

After the girl had brought their round, Guido said in a harsh tone,
looking away from him: "Well, what is it? I got to go on again soon."

"I just came from the Michaelis'," said Kintyre.

"What?" Guido jerked. "What'd you go there for?"

"Let's say I was curious. Gene Michaelis was out of sight last weekend.
He won't say where."

"You don't--" Guido looked up. Something congealed in him. "I thought
Corinna was just flipping," he said, very softly.

"I don't accuse anyone," said Kintyre. "I'm only a civilian. However,
the police are going to give him a rough time if he won't alibi
himself."

Guido lit a fresh cigarette from the butt of the last.

"Where were you, Saturday afternoon through Monday morning?" Kintyre
tossed the question off as lightly as he was able.

"Out of town," said Guido. "With some friends."

"You'd better get in touch with them, then, so they can give statements
to that effect."

"They--Christ almighty!" In the guttering flamelight, Kintyre saw how
sweat began to film the faun countenance.

"My personal opinion," he said, watching Guido's lips fight to stiffen
themselves, "is that you are not involved. The fact remains, though,
you'd better account for your weekend."

"To you?" It was a wan little truculence.

"I can't force you. But without trying to play detective, I am sticking
my nose a ways into this affair. Knowing the people concerned, I might
possibly turn up something the police can use.

"So where did you spend your weekend, Guido?"

The full mouth pouted. "Rotate, cat, rotate. Why should anybody care?
Where's my motive?"

"Where is anyone's motive? You have a lot of shady friends. I daresay
your mother had to shield you often enough from your father--or even
from the authorities, once or twice." It was a guess on Kintyre's part,
but he saw that he had struck a target. "Maybe of late you've gotten
mixed up with something worse. Maybe Bruce found out."

"Beat feet," said Guido. "Blow before I call the bouncer."

"I'm merely trying to reason as a policeman might. I'm not accusing
you, I'm warning you."

"Well," said Guido, raising his eyes again, "there wasn't anything like
that going on. Certainly nothing Bruce would know about. I mean, man,
he was all professor!"

"Jealousy," murmured Kintyre. "There's another motive. Bruce was the
favorite. All his life he was the favorite. Oh, he deserved it--the
well-behaved kid, the bright and promising kid. But it must have been
hard for you to take, with your Italian background, where the oldest
son normally has precedence. You were college material too. It just so
happened Bruce was better, and there was only money for one. Of course,
later you had your G.I., and didn't use it. You'd lost interest. Which
doesn't change the fact: money was spent on Bruce that might otherwise
have been spent on you."

Guido finished his whisky and signaled out the booth. "Crazy," he
fleered. "But go on."

"Well, let's see. I imagine you're always at loggerheads with your
father. That won't recommend you to a suspicious detective either. Here
you are, thirty years old, and except for your military hitch you've
always lived at home. You've sponged, between short-lived half-hearted
jobs; you've drifted from one night club engagement to another, but all
small time and steadily getting smaller. I hardly think you belong to
the Church any more, do you?"

"I was kicked out," admitted Guido with a certain cockiness. "I got
married a few years back. It didn't take. So I got divorced and the
Church kicked me out. Not that I'd believed that guff for a long time
before. But there was quite a row."

The waitress looked into the booth. Guido slid a hand down her hip.
"Let's have a bottle in here," he said. "Raus!" He slapped her heartily
on the rump. His gaze followed her toward the bar.

"Nice piece, that," he said. "Maybe I can fix you up with her, if you
want."

"No, thanks," said Kintyre.

Guido was winning back his confidence. He grinned and said: "Sure. I'm
the bad boy. Bruce worked part time all his undergraduate years, and
made his own way since. Corinna still helps out with a slice of her
paycheck, which is none too big. But me, man, I got horns, hoof, and
tail. I eat babies for breakfast.

"Only lemme tell you something about Bruce. All the time he was so
holy-holy, attending Mass every Sunday he was over on this side--but
avoiding Communion, come to think of it--he didn't give a damn either.
He just didn't have the nerve to make a clean break with those black
crows, like me."

Kintyre, who had listened to many midnight hours of troubled young
confidences, said quietly: "At the time he died, Bruce hadn't yet
decided what he believed. He wouldn't hurt his parents for what might
turn out to be a moment's intellectual whim."

"All right, all right. Only did you know he was shacking up?"

Kintyre raised his brows. "I'm surprised he told you. He introduced the
girl around as his fiancée. In the apartment house he said she was his
wife. He was more concerned about her reputation than she was."

"Come off it," snorted Guido. "Who did he fool?"

"Nnn ... nobody who met her, I suppose. He tried, but--"

"But this was the first woman he ever had, and it was such a big event
he couldn't hide it. He was a lousy liar. Just for kicks, I badgered
him till he broke down and admitted it to me."

"It was her idea," said Kintyre. "He wanted to marry her."

"Be this as it may," said Guido, "our little tin Jesus turns out to've
been less than frank with everybody. So what else did he have cooking?
Don't ask what I'm mixed up in. Look into his doings."

"I might," said Kintyre, "except that you have explained to me how poor
a liar he was."

The girl came back with a pint of bourbon and a chit for Guido to sign.
She leaned far over to set down a bottle of soda and two glasses of
ice, so Kintyre could have a good look down her dress.

"Man," said Guido when she had oscillated off again, "Laura's got ants
tonight. If you don't help yourself to that, I will."

"Why offer me the chance in the first place?" asked Kintyre. He ignored
the proffered glass, sticking to his beer.

"I was going out on the town when I finished here. Know some places,
they cost but they're worth it." Guido slugged his own glass full,
added a dash of mix, and drank heartily. "They'll keep till tomorrow,
though."

"I wonder where a chronically broke small-time entertainer gets money
to splurge, all at once," said Kintyre.

Guido set his drink down again. Behind the loose, open blouse, his
breast muscles grew taut.

"Never you mind," he said, in the bleakest voice Kintyre had yet heard
him use. "Forget I mentioned it. Run along home and play with your
books."

"As you wish. But when you're being officially grilled--and you will
be, sonny--I wouldn't talk about Bruce in exactly the terms you used
tonight. It sounds more and more as if you hated him."

Kintyre had no intention of leaving. Guido was disquietingly hard to
understand. He might even, actually, be a party to the murder. Kintyre
didn't want to believe that. He hoped all the tough and scornful words
had been no more than a concealment, from Guido's own inward self, of
bewildered pain. But he couldn't be sure.

He would have to learn more.

He sat back, easing his body, his mind, trying not to expect anything
whatsoever. Then nothing could catch him off balance.

But the third party jarred him nonetheless.

A man came over toward the booth. He had evidently just made an inquiry
of the waitress. He wore a good suit, painstakingly fashionable, and
very tight black shoes. His face looked young.

Guido saw him coming and tightened fingers around his glass. A pulse in
the singer's throat began to flutter.

"Get out," he said.

"What's wrong now?" Kintyre didn't move.

"Get out!" The eyes that turned to him were dark circles rimmed all
around with white. The tones cracked across. "I'll see you later. There
could be trouble if you stay. Blow!"

Kintyre made no doubt of it. Ordinarily he would have left, he was
not one to search for a conflict. But he did not think any man could
be worse to meet than the horror, and he could feel the horror still
waiting to take him, as soon as he stopped having other matters to
focus on.

He poured out the rest of his beer. Then the man was standing at the
booth.

He was young indeed, Kintyre saw, perhaps so young he needed false
identification to drink. His face was almost girlish, in a broad-nosed
sleepy-eyed way, and very white. The rest of him was middling tall and
well muscled; he moved with a sureness which told Kintyre he was quick
on his feet.

"Uh," said Guido.

The young man jerked his head backward.

"He was just--just going," chattered Guido. "Right away."

"When I finish my beer, of course," said Kintyre mildly.

"Drink up," said the young man. He had no color in his voice. Its
accent wasn't local, but Kintyre couldn't place the exact region. More
or less Midwestern. Chicago?

It was a good excuse to get his back up. "I don't see where you have
any authority in the matter," said Kintyre.

"Mother of God," whispered Guido frantically across the table. "Scram!"

The young man stood droop-lidded for a moment, considering. Then he
said to Guido: "Okay. Another booth."

"Won't you join us here?" asked Kintyre. "You can say your say when
I've gone."

The young man thought it over for a second or two. He shrugged faintly
and sat down beside Kintyre, a couple of feet away. Shakily, Guido
poured a drink into the unused glass of ice.

"Th-th-this is--Larkin," he said. "Terry Larkin. This is Professor
Kintyre. He was a friend of my brother, is all."

"Are you from out of town, Mr. Larkin?" said Kintyre.

The young man took out a pack of cigarettes. It was the container for a
standard brand, but the homemade cylinders inside were another matter.
He lit one and sat back, unheeding of the whisky.

Kintyre would not have thought an ordinary drug addict anything to
reckon with: the effects are too ruinous. But in spite of all the lurid
stories, marijuana is a mild sort of dope, which leaves more control
than alcohol and probably does less physiological damage than tobacco.
If it came to trouble, Larkin was not going to be inconvenienced by a
reefer or two.

"Friend of mine," said Guido. He was still tense, his smile a
meaningless rictus. But a hope was becoming clear to see on him, that
the episode would pass over quietly.

Kintyre did not mean for it to. There was more than coincidence
here. If Larkin simply had private business to discuss, even illegal
business, Guido would have had no reason to fear trouble. Larkin could
merely wait until the professor took his bumbling presence home.

 The trouble is , thought Kintyre,  I've been asking so many
questions. I might irritate Happy here. 

Wherefore he dropped his bomb with some care: "Perhaps you can help
me, Mr. Larkin. I suppose you know Guido's brother was murdered. Guido
won't tell me where he was during that time, Saturday and Sunday, and
I'm afraid he might get in trouble with the law."

Guido regarded Larkin like a beggar.

Larkin sat still. So still. It must have been half a minute before he
moved. Then he looked through a woman's lashes at Kintyre and said:

"He was with me. We went out and picked daisies all weekend."

Kintyre smiled. "Well, if that's all--" His bomb had missed. He dropped
another. "To avoid trouble, though, you'd better both go to the police
with a statement."

"You're no cop," said Larkin.

"No. It was only a suggestion." Having bracketed the target, Kintyre
dropped his third missile. "If they happen to ask me first what I know
about it, I can refer them to you. Where are you staying?"

" Gèsu Cristo ," groaned Guido out of a lost childhood.

Larkin's face remained dead. But he laid down his cigarette and said
slowly and clearly: "I told you to run along home. This time I mean it,
daddy-o."

Kintyre bunched his muscles--only for an instant, then he remembered
that he must be at ease, at ease.

"I'm beginning to wonder what you really were doing last weekend,
Terry," he said.

There was hardly a visible movement. He heard the click, and the
switchblade poised on the bench, aimed at his throat.

"End of the line," Larkin told him without rancor. "On your way. If you
know what's good for you, you won't come back."

"Do you know," murmured Kintyre, "I think this really is a case for the
police. Ever hear of citizen's arrest?"

Guido's wind rattled in his gullet.

Larkin's blade spurted upward. It was an expert, underhand sticking
motion; Kintyre could have died with hardly a noise, in that booth
designed not to be looked into from outside.

From the moment the steel emerged, he had realized he was going to get
cut. That was half the technique of facing a knife. His last remark had
been absolutely sincere: the law needed Larkin a prisoner, now. His
left arm moved simultaneously with Larkin's right. The blade struck
his forearm and furrowed keenly through the sleeve. It opened the skin
beneath, but little more, for Kintyre was already lifting the arm,
violently, as the follow-through slid Larkin's wrist across. He smacked
the knife hand back against the booth wall.

His own right hand slipped under Larkin's knee. Then he half stood up;
his left came down to assist; and he threw Larkin out of the booth.

He followed, out where there was room to deal properly with the boy.
Larkin had hit a table ( Western movie style , grinned part of Kintyre)
and the whole business crashed and skated over the floor.

The bouncer ran ponderously to break up the fight. Kintyre had nothing
against him, except that any delay would give Larkin too much time. He
ran to meet the bouncer, therefore, stopped a fractional second before
collision, and took the body's impact on his hip. It was elementary art
from there on in. The bouncer bounced.

Larkin was back on his feet, spitting fury and blood. He'd lost his
knife--should be easy to wrap up-- Hold it! 

The second switchblade gleamed among candles. Kintyre had almost
impaled himself. He fell, in the judo manner, cushioned by an arm.
Whetted metal buzzed where he had been. Rolling over on his back,
Kintyre waited for Larkin to jump at him. Larkin was not that naïve. He
picked a Chianti bottle off a table and threw it.

Kintyre saved his eyes with an arm hastily raised. The blow was
numbing. He whipped to his feet again. The bartender circled on the
fringes, gibbering and waving a bungstarter: the typical barroom fight
is ridiculous, these two meant what they were doing. The bouncer
dragged himself to his hands and knees.

"Call the police," snapped Kintyre. "And for God's sake, some of these
tablecloths will start burning any minute!"

The customers were milling away. One of the fairies screamed; the butch
stood on a chair and watched with dry avid eyes. Larkin backed off
along the wall. Kintyre followed. Larkin wasn't foolish enough to rush;
Kintyre would have to.

He waited till there was a small space clear of tables before him. Then
he crouched low and ran in. His left arm was up, for a shield. He'd
take that toadstabber in the biceps if he must.

Larkin, back against the bar, drew into himself.  Almost on one knee ,
thought Kintyre as he plunged in,  like a Roman gladiator trying for
the belly.  A tactical change was called for.

He shifted course and met the bar six feet from Larkin. His palms came
down on it, he used his own speed to leap frogwise up to its surface,
pivoting to face Larkin. He made one jump along the bar. His second was
into the air. He landed with both feet on Larkin's back, before the
other had more than half straightened.

Larkin went down, the knife flying from his hand. Kintyre fell off and
went in a heap. This wasn't judo, it wasn't anything; Trig would laugh
himself sick if he could watch. But--

Kintyre rolled back. Larkin was climbing unsteadily to his feet.
Kintyre pulled him down and got a choking hold from behind. He lay on
Larkin's back, his legs and sheer weight controlling the body, one arm
around the throat, hands gripping wrists.

"Okay," he panted. "Squirm away. You'll just strangle yourself, you
know."

Larkin hissed an obscenity. He was lighter, but Kintyre could feel a
hard vitality in him. No matter, he was held now.

"Bartender," wheezed Kintyre. "Call the police--"

Something landed on his head.

It was like an explosion. For a moment he spiraled down toward night.
He felt Larkin wriggle free, he groped mindlessly but his hands were
empty and the world was blackness and great millstones.

Then he was aware once more. Guido crouched beside him, shaken and
sobbing, and pawed at his bleeding scalp with a handkerchief. "Oh, God,
Doc, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Are you hurt?"

Kintyre looked around. "Where'd Junior go?" he croaked.

"Out the back door. Christ, Doc, I had to, you don't know what--Mary,
Mother of God, forgive me, but--"

Kintyre stood up, leaning on Guido. A small riot was developing among
the clientele and the help. He ignored it, brushing someone aside
without even looking. The singer's stool lay at his feet. Guido must
have clobbered him with that.

"Suppose you tell me why," he said.

"I--Get out. Get out before the cops come. I'll cover for you--tell
them I don't know who you are, you were a stranger and--Get out!" Guido
pushed at him, still weeping.

"I don't have anything to fear from them," said Kintyre. "It strikes me
that maybe you do."

"Maybe," whispered Guido.

"Bruce died in a nasty way."

"This isn't--nothing to do with--I swear it, Doc, so help me God I do.
Think I'd ever--It's something else, for Christ's sake!" Guido spoke
in a slurred muted scream. "It's not only the cops I'm scared of, Doc,
it's the others. They'd kill me!"

Kintyre studied him for a long second.

After all, he thought, this was Bruce's brother. And Corinna's.

"Okay," he said. "I promise you nothing. I, at least, will insist on
knowing what this is all about. When I do, perhaps I'll decide the
police ought to be told, and perhaps not. But for now, good night,
Guido."

He turned to go out the rear exit. Faintly through the main door, he
heard approaching sirens, but there was time enough to get into a back
alley and thence to his car.

He realized, suddenly, with an unsurprised drowsy delight like the
aftermath of love, that the horror had left him. When he continued his
search for Larkin and for that more terrible thing which Larkin must
represent, it would be from honor, because he was taking it on himself
not to tell the police at once that there was a mansticker loose in
their city. He would not be merely running from his private ghosts.

Tonight he would be able to sleep.

He paused at the door, looking back. "Good night, Guido," he repeated.
"And thanks again for the song."




7


Two brawls in succession had not tired him; he got more exercise than
that in an evening at the dojo. But the strain of the time before had
had its effect. He woke with a fluttering gasp and saw dust motes dance
in a yellow sunbeam. The clock said almost nine.

"Judas priest," he groaned. Suddenly it came to him that he had left
Guido unguarded. So much for the amateur detective.

He sprang from bed and twirled the radio controls. Having found a
newscast, he went into the bathroom and showered; Trig Yamamura had
beaten that much Zen into his thick head. Through the water noise, he
heard that more money was necessary so the nation's bought friends
would stay bought; that the countries which had simply given their
friendship were being imperialistic, i.e., hanging on to their overseas
property, and therefore unworthy of help; that subversive elements
in the bottle cap industry were to be investigated; and that Mother
Bloor's Old Time Chicken Broth was made by a new scientific process
which "sealed in" tiny drops of chicken goodness. Nothing was said
about another murder.

Kintyre sighed and gave himself time to cook breakfast. If Guido hadn't
been killed last night, he must be safely asleep at home by now. There
were a few hours to spare.

He got into slacks and a gray sports shirt: he hated neckties and had
no reason to wear one today. First, he decided, he must see Trig. After
that he could wind up Bruce's University job. And, yes, he would take a
closer look at the Book of Witches.

Yamamura's office was unimpressively above a drugstore in downtown
Berkeley, a mile or so to walk. Kintyre found him polishing a Japanese
sword. "Hi. Isn't this a nice one?" he boasted mildly. "I picked it up
last week. It's only Tokugawa period, but get the heft, will you?"

Kintyre drew the blade. It came suddenly alive. He returned it with a
faint sense of loss. "I could have used that chopper last night," he
said.

"Yeh." Narrow black eyes drifted across him, the plaster high on his
forehead and the outsize Band-Aid on his left forearm. "What happened,
and is she going to prefer charges?"

"I suspect I met Bruce Lombardi's murderer," said Kintyre. "Or one of
them."

Yamamura slid the sword carefully into its plain wooden scabbard. He
took out his oldest briar and stuffed the bowl. Kintyre had finished
his account by the time the pipe had a full head of steam up.

"--So I came on home."

Yamamura looked irritated. "It's your own stupid fault Larkin got
away," he said. "Obviously you were holding your neck muscles tense.
The stool wouldn't have hurt you to speak of if you weren't." He
waggled his pipestem. "How often must I tell you,  relax ? Or don't you
want to win your black belt?"

"Come off it," said Kintyre. "Look, what I'm afraid of is that Larkin,
or someone associated with him, may decide Guido isn't safe to leave
alive."

"All right. Let Guido ask the police for protection."

"He can't. I don't know why, but he doesn't dare. He'd rather take his
chances with Larkin."

"I'd suggest that if he's that scared of the authorities, he deserves
whatever he'll get."

"Don't be such a damned prig. Guido may be an accessory, of course, but
I hate to think that. Why write him off before we're sure he wasn't
just someone's dupe?"

"Mmmm. What has all this to do with me?"

"I want you to keep an eye on him."

"So? What's wrong with you doing this? Your vacation is coming up. I
still have a living to make, and you can't pay me."

"I haven't the skill. And Guido and Larkin both know my face. Also, I
do think I can be of some value on this side of the Bay."

"Huh! Sherlock Nero Poirot rides again."

"No. Think, Trig. The probability is that Bruce was killed by one or
more professionals. But they didn't do it for fun. Somebody hired them,
and that somebody is the real murderer. I've two reasons for wanting to
meddle a little bit, rather than simply dumping what I know into the
official lap. First, to spare Guido, at least till I'm sure if he's
worth sparing or not. But second, this may not be entirely a police
problem. They'll concentrate on the actual, physical killers, try to
find one or two or three ants in the whole Bay Area antheap. They've no
choice about that, it's their duty. Doubtless they'll put a man on the
job of finding out who the killers' boss is. But the police don't know
anyone concerned very intimately. The boss will have a certain amount
of time to cover his tracks. Or to plan another murder.

"I knew Bruce well. I must have met all his friends, however casually.
 I have met whoever had Bruce killed.  It may be sheer megalomania on
my part, but I think there's a chance I could get an idea who it was."

Yamamura put his feet on the desk, leaned back, and stared out the
window at the street. "Okay," he said at last. "On conditions."

"What?"

"I do have my family to keep. Not to mention my license. I'll undertake
a week or so of Guido-guarding as an investment. Because if I could
get a clue to the murderers, the boss or his torpedos, if I could give
any substantial help to the police, the publicity would be good for my
business. But to do anything useful along those lines, I'll have to
leave Guido from time to time. I'll tail him when I think he may be in
danger, yes, but when I think he's going to be safe for a few hours,
I'll go check on something else."

"All right," said Kintyre. "In fact, excellent."

Yamamura looked at him through pipe smoke and said gravely: "If I find
reasons why Guido should be arrested, I won't cover for him. I'll turn
him in. Furthermore, I could make an error in judgment. I might leave
Guido and come back to find Guido plus a knife. Now I sort of like
you, Bob, don't ask me why. I'd hate to think you would hold either my
informing or my mistake against me."

"Certainly not."

"Are you sure?"

"You know me, Trig."

Yamamura thought it over for a while. "Very well," he said. "Let's get
the descriptions, addresses, and whatever else you know."

When they had finished, they were silent a few seconds.

"Oh, what did you find out about Owens?" asked Kintyre.

"Wife and two grown children in New York. Started as a business
traveler, years ago; found that his hobby of writing paid more,
and quit to write full time; captain's commission during the war,
chairborne brigade in Washington--"

"If it takes a criminology degree to enter a bookstore, tell the clerk
you're just looking, and read a dust jacket biography, then I'm in the
wrong racket."

Yamamura settled himself more comfortably. "Owens has been hanging
around Berkeley for several days without obvious motive," he said.
"Addressed a writers' club Saturday night, but left early and was
presumably on the town. They say at the hotel he slept late on
Sunday, but no one remembers when he came in. Played some golf Sunday
afternoon, dropped from sight again that night. Since then he's been
simply--around. Bored, lonesome, but waiting for something or other."

"In short," said Kintyre, "it's possible he--"

"Did it personally? I don't know. Anything is possible, I guess. He may
just have been out on the make, too. The chambermaid at his hotel tells
me he's the pawing type. Of course, if the murder was done by proxy,
these timetables don't mean anything anyway."

"Of course," said Kintyre.




8


Bruce had shared an office with four other assistants, but they were
gone now. Bare of people, it had a hollow quality.

Kintyre went through the desk a final time. There was so little which
was personally a man's. A few scrawls on the memo pad, a scratch sheet
covered with intricate doodles, Margery's picture, some reference
books, and a fat folder of notes relating to his research: no more. It
could all be carried away in a single trip.

Kintyre attacked the remaining student papers. That was a mechanical
task; few freshmen nowadays ever showed much originality, except in
their spelling. Most of his brain idled. It occurred to him that one
common element bound together everyone who seemed to figure in this
affair. The Italian nation and culture.

Angelo, Maria, Guido Lombardi: All born in Genoa.

Bruce Lombardi: Born over here, but oriented toward the old country,
writing his master's thesis as a critical exegesis of a medieval
Italian manuscript, corresponding with an uncle in the Italian secret
service.

Corinna Lombardi: Well, Bruce's sister; spoke the language too.

Margery Towne: Bruce's girl. Admittedly a weak connection.

Himself, Robert Kintyre: Postgraduate studies of the Renaissance,
on a fellowship which kept him in Italy from 1949 to 1951; took his
Ph.D. at Cal with a study of those lesser known sociological writings
before Machiavelli which had influenced the Florentine realist;
returned overseas for a year ending last summer, on another grant to
continue his researches; now teaching and working on a book which only
specialists would ever read.

Jabez Owens: Visited Europe, including Italy, many times. Claimed,
as a semiamateur scholar, to have unearthed some lurid Borgia
correspondence, which he had turned to his own profit.

Gerald Clayton: Officer in the Army Quartermaster Corps in Italy,
during the latter part of the war. Returned there immediately after his
discharge, came back in a couple of years with the American franchise
for a new line of Italian motor scooters. Since then he spent half his
time abroad, pumping a steadily larger flow of European goods into the
United States market, everything from automobiles to perfumes. Also
interested in manuscripts. Had several tracked down for him by Italian
scholars, bought them, sent them home. He obtained the Book of Witches
in Sicily, and carried it along when business took him to San Francisco
last fall. Found Kintyre was the man to see, looked him up, asked him
to examine the volume for whatever value it had. Kintyre had turned
the project over to Bruce; it would make a good M.A. thesis. Clayton
had pungled up a couple of thousand dollars as a research grant: a
graceful way of making it financially possible for Bruce to give some
time to the task. Since then Clayton had frequently seen both Bruce
and Kintyre, and shown a real if not very deep interest in the boy's
progress.

Gene Michaelis: Served his Navy hitch in the Mediterranean theater.
Yes, Bruce had mentioned that. What might have happened during Gene's
Italian shore leaves was an intriguing question.

Peter Michaelis: Gene's father, as embittered as he toward the Lombardi
tribe.

Terry Larkin: No connection demonstrated, but it was quite possible in
this land of many races.

"Holy Hieronymus," muttered Kintyre, "next thing I'll be looking for a
Black Hand."

But melodramatic and implausible facts were still stubbornly facts.

He completed his task about noon, turned in the papers and reports, and
got the Book of Witches from the department safe. He wanted a better
acquaintance with this thing.

Bruce's office was too empty. He took the manuscript and the folder
of notes to his own room. It was just as bare and quiet between these
walls, but more familiar. He could look out the window to lawns and
blowing trees and sunlight spilling over them--without thinking that
Bruce lay frozen under a sheet.

He put the book on his desk with care. It was almost six hundred years
old.

The phone rang. He jerked in surprise, swore at himself, and picked it
up. "Hello?"

"Kintyre? Jabez Owens."

"Oh. What is it?"

"I called your home and you weren't in, so I tried--How are you?"

"I'll live. What's the occasion?"

"I wondered--I'd like to talk to you. Would you care to have lunch with
me?"

"No, thanks." Kintyre had better plans than to watch Owens perform.
"I'm busy."

"Are you sure?" The voice was worried.

"Quite. I'll be here for some hours. I'll just duck out for a
sandwich." Maliciously: "I've some work to do on Bruce's project.
Afterward--"

What? Well, he hadn't called Margery today. He supposed, with a faintly
suffocated feeling, that he ought to see her. "I have an engagement,"
he finished.

"Oh." Hesitantly: "Do you think I could drop up to your office, then?
It really is urgent, and it may be to your own advantage."

"Sure," said Kintyre, remembering his wish to play sleuth. "Walk into
my parlor." He gave Owens the room number and hung up. Then he returned
to the Book of Witches.

It was a thick palimpsest, a little over quarto size. The binding,
age-eaten leather with rusted iron straps, was perhaps a century newer
than the volume itself. He opened it, heavy in his hands, and looked at
the title page.  Liber Veneficarum --

 Book of Witches, Their Works and Days, Compiled from Records and the
Accounts of Trustworthy Men, Done at the Sicilian Abbey of St. John the
Divine at the Command of the Abbot Rogero, for the Attention and Use of
the Authorities of Our Holy Mother Church. 

When Clayton first brought it around, Kintyre had only skimmed
through the black uncials in a hasty fashion. He knew there had been
considerable Satanism in the Middle Ages, partly pagan survivals and
partly social protest, but that had not seemed to be in his immediate
line. A man has only time to learn a few things before the darkness
takes him back.

Now he opened Bruce's folder and began to read the notes. Some were
typewritten, some still in pothooks harder to decipher than the
fourteenth century Low Latin. But they were in order, and their own
references were clearly shown. Bruce had been a good, careful scholar.

Well--Kintyre turned to the first page. It was very plain work,
unilluminated. The opening sentences described the purpose: to set
forth exactly what the witchcraft movement was, how widespread and
how dangerous to the Faith and the state. Sources were given, with
some commentary on their trustworthiness. The Middle Ages did not lack
critical sense. The monk wrote soberly of witchcraft as a set of real
activities in the real world; he wasted very little time on the demons
presumed to be the object of worship.

Kintyre struggled with his memory, brought back an approximate
recollection of a later passage, and hunted for it again. Yes, here,
near the middle: an account of a thirteenth century witch hunt in
northern Italy, a follow-up to the Albigensian Crusade. The author
said that since then there had been no covens worth mentioning
north of Abruzzi, and cited proof--statements by Church and secular
investigators, a couple of confessions extracted by torture.

Bruce's notes at this point gave confirming cross references. A
penciled afterthought occurred: "If there were no organized Satanists
in the Romagna in 1398, it hardly seems reasonable that Cesare Borgia
could have joined them a century later!" Evidence was marshaled to
show there had been no revival in the meantime. Rather, the cults had
been on the wane throughout the fifteenth century, as prosperity and
enlightenment spread.

 Well , thought Kintyre,  that does pretty well sink Owens' boat. 

Something caught his eye. He leaned over the sheet. A fifteenth century
"discourse," an official report, in the state archives of Milan was
quoted to support the claim that there was no contemporary local Black
Mass. In the margin was scribbled "L.L."

Private abbreviations could be weird and wonderful, but Kintyre found
himself obscurely irritated. So much was unknown about Bruce's final
destiny, even an initial might tell something.

He found the letters several times more in the next hour, as he worked
his way through the volume and the notes. They seemed to mark findings
which could only be made in Italy: by going out and looking at a site,
or by reading in ancient libraries.

The telephone interrupted him again. He glanced at his watch. Two
o'clock already! He grew aware that he was hungry.

"Hello. Robert Kintyre speaking."

The voice in his ear was low. It stumbled the barest bit. "Professor
Kintyre. This is Corinna Lombardi."

"Oh." He sat gaping into the mouthpiece like a schoolboy, feeling his
heartbeat pick up. "Oh, yes," he said stupidly.

"I wanted to apologize to you."

"Hm?" With an effort, he pulled himself toward sense. "What the
dev--What in the world is there to apologize for?"

"Last night. I was horrible."

Habit took over, the smoothness of having known many women; but his
tone was burred. "Oh, now, please don't be silly. If you won't mind my
saying so at a time like this, I thought you were quite extraordinarily
pleasant to meet."

Did he catch the unsubstantial wisp of a chuckle? "Thank you. You're
very kind. But I did pull a regular Lady Macbeth. It was nerves. I was
tired and miserable. I hope you'll believe how sorry I've been all day.
I've spent the past half hour at the phone, trying to track you down."

"If I'd known that, I'd have laid a paper trail--Blast!" Kintyre
checked himself. "Now it's my turn to ask your pardon. I wasn't
thinking."

"It's all right," she said gently.

"No, but--"

"Really it is. Now that the requiem Mass has been held, the solemn one
Mother wanted--it was almost like a real funeral. Everything looks
different now."

"Yes, I saw the announcement. I couldn't come, I had to finish his
work."

"I could envy you that," she said. Then, with a lifting in her tone: "I
came back and slept. I woke up only an hour ago. It's like a curtain
falling. Bruce is dead, and that will always hurt, but we can go on now
with our own lives."

He hovered on the edge of decision, wondering what to do, afraid of the
ghoul she might think him. A line from  The Prince  came: " ... it is
better to be impetuous than cautious, for fortune is a woman --" All
right, he told himself.

"There's one thing, Miss Lombardi."

"Yes?" She waited patiently for him to sort out his words.

"I haven't forgotten what you did say last night. I went ahead and
looked into it, your ideas, I mean."

"Oh?" A noncommittal noise, not openly skeptical.

"I can tell you something you may feel better for."

"What?" Caution, now, not of him but of the thing he might say.

"The phone is hardly suitable. Could we get together in person?"

"Well--" It stretched into seconds, which he found unnaturally long.
Then, clearly, almost gaily: "Of course. Whenever you like."

"This evening? You're at your parents' home still, aren't you?"

"I'm going back to my own place today. But this evening will be fine."

He said with careful dryness: "Bearing in mind that I am a somewhat
respectable assistant professor of history and more than a decade your
senior, may I suggest dinner?"

She did actually chuckle that time. "Thank you, you may. No references
needed; Bruce told me enough about you. And it's a good deal better
than sitting alone brooding, isn't it?"

He had gotten the address and a six-thirty date before he wholly
realized what was going on. When the phone was back in its cradle,
he sat for some indefinite time.  Oh, no!  he thought at last.
 Impossible. I'm too old to be romantic and too young to be tired. 

He decided to eat before going back to the manuscript.

While he went out for a sandwich and milkshake, while he walked back
again, he twisted his attention to the problem of the book. It could
have wrought a man's death, or it could only be a stack of inked
parchment. Most likely the latter; but then who or what was L. L?

The building was gloomy when he re-entered it from sunlight. Even his
office seemed dark. It took his eyes a few seconds to register the fact
that the book was gone.




9


Kintyre stood for a little while more, scarcely thinking.

Then, during an instant, he had a vision of tiny black devils
fluttering through the half-open window, lifting the volume and
squeaking their way out on quick charred wings. But no, no, this was
the twentieth century. We are rational, we don't believe in witchcraft,
we are scientific and believe in vitamin pills, Teamwork, and the
inalienable right of every language to have a country of its own. Also,
the phase of the moon was wrong, and--and--

His mind steadied. He whirled about the desk, to see if the book had
somehow slid off. No. He snatched up the phone and called the main
office. Had anyone come into his room in the past twenty minutes? We
don't know, Dr. Kintyre. No, we did not pick up your book. No, we
didn't see anyone.

He put back the instrument and tried to start his thoughts. It was
curiously hard. He tended to repeat himself. Someone must have come in.
Yes, someone must have come in. It would be easy to do, unobserved.
Someone must have come in and taken the book.

What the hell had Margery's apartment been burgled for?

That snapped him back to wakefulness. If, as Clayton had suggested
yesterday, the burglar was after this volume and hadn't found it, the
University was the next logical place to try.

 Owens! I told him I'd go out to eat. He could have watched the
entrance. 

But where was he now?--Wait. Close your eyes, let the mind float
free, don't strain too hard--memory bobbed to the surface. Owens had
mentioned taking a room in the Bishop, a hotel conveniently near campus.

Kintyre forced himself into steadiness. If Owens had copped the book,
Owens would want to get rid of it. Permanently. But leather and
parchment don't burn easily. Dumping it meant too much chance of its
being noticed and recovered. Owens would take it to Los Angeles with
him, to destroy at leisure.

He was probably packing at this moment.

Kintyre tucked Bruce's notes into a drawer which he locked: not that
they had any value without the physical evidence of the book. He went
down the hall fast, a pace he kept up on the outside. His brain querned
until he brought it under control. Damn it, Trig was right, there was
no reason on God's earth ever to tense any muscle not actually working;
and the same held true for the mind. An emotional stew would grind him
down and get him to the Bishop no sooner.

It was a hard discipline, though. Kintyre had no urge to embrace Zen
Buddhism, or any other faith for that matter; but he would have given
much to possess the self-mastery it taught.

He entered the modest red-brick building a few blocks from Sather Gate
and asked for Mr. Owens. The clerk checked the key rack and said: "Oh,
yes, he came in a few minutes ago."

"I'll go on up, I'm expected," said Kintyre. It was probably not a lie.

When he knocked on the writer's door, he heard himself invited in.
Owens had one suitcase open on the bed and was folding a coat into it.
Another stood strapped on the floor.

He looked up (was his color a shade more rubicund?) and said, "Hullo,
there. I'm glad you came by. I'm leaving tonight."

The voice was level. Perhaps too level. Kintyre closed the door and
said: "I thought you were going to come and see me in my office."

"Well, I was," said Owens. "I wanted to get my packing out of the way
first." He felt in the suitcase and brought out a pocket flask. "Care
for a drop?"

"No," said Kintyre.

He leaned in the doorway, watching. But he saw only that Owens stood
neatly attired, calm of face, steady of hands, putting up a linen suit.

"What brings you here?" asked the writer.

Kintyre countered: "Isn't this a rather sudden decision to leave?"

"Mm, yes. I made the reservation just a few minutes ago. But I haven't
much reason to stay here any longer, have I?"

"The Lombardi murder."

Owens shook his head. "Poor chap. But what can I do about it? I assure
you, the police didn't ask me to stay in town."

He gave Kintyre a straight look, smiled, and went on: "Why don't you
sit down and talk to me, though? I'm more or less stuck till Clayton
arrives. He said he'd meet me here."

"Clayton? Why--" Kintyre moved slowly forward, to the armchair Owens
waved at. He continued talking, inanely. "I thought Clayton was in the
City. He told me yesterday when we had lunch, he told me he'd be going
right over there and didn't expect to come back to this side in the
near future."

"Oh? I called him at the Fairhill, just before you got here. He was
right in his suite."

Kintyre sat down. "What did you want him for?"

"To make him an offer for the Book of Witches."

"What!"

"Take it easy," advised Owens. "You don't own the thing."

The effort not to pounce left Kintyre rigid. He managed finally to say:
"I suppose that was what you wanted to see me about, to offer me the
same bribe Bruce wouldn't take."

"I see you've gotten a somewhat biased version." Owens' reply had the
blandness of conscious mastery. "Yes, it was to be a similar offer. Not
that I don't stand behind my contentions in the Borgia matter, but you
people in this academic cloudland don't realize that the rest of us
have a living to make. I have no time at present to dig into minutiae,
and anyhow there are more important things in life. What I asked
Lombardi was that he postpone the argument. Not perjure his precious
self, only wait a while. There were enough other things to be written
about, anent that book. He didn't have to raise the Borgia issue at
all. Maybe in five or ten years--"

"Since you brought up the Borgia issue, as you call it, in the first
place," said Kintyre harshly, "we in cloudland have no choice. If
there's a notorious error afoot, we've got to correct it. What the hell
do you think we get paid for?"

"Publicity," said Owens. "Ornament. A ritual bow in the direction of
yesterday." He took forth a silver case, opened it, fetched out a long
cigarette and tapped it on his thumbnail.

"You claim to be a realist," he said. "Then why don't you admit
the facts? This business of scholarship, verification, the painful
asymptotic approach to truth--it's dead. It went out with the society
of aristocrats. This is a proletarian age." He lit the cigarette. His
trained lecture-circuit voice rolled out, urbane, whimsical, with a
bare touch of sadness. "He who dances must pay the piper, but he who
pays the piper may call the tune. Since the bills today are all being
footed by slobs, what do you expect but the onward march of slobbery?
One day you'll be fired in the name of government economy. I'll hang on
a little longer, because I gauge the current level of oafishness and
make each succeeding book conform; but sooner or later it will be too
much trouble for the public even to read my swill. Then I'll settle
down to live on my investments, and perhaps I can even go back to a
little honest scholarship. But not now. First I must survive."

Kintyre said slowly, caught up in spite of himself: "Granted, this is
the century of the common mind. But what makes you think it will last,
even long enough for you to collect on those investments? This is also
the so-called atomic age."

Owens lifted his shoulders and let them fall again, gracefully. "How
do I know I won't be hit by a car tomorrow? One estimates the situation
and acts on probabilities."

Kintyre leaned forward. "The probabilities are all for the worst,"
he said. "Anyone who claims a roomful of people, all with grenades
and all hating each other, will keep on acting rationally forever, is
whistling past the graveyard of a dozen earlier civilizations. But I
do believe scholarship--rigorous thinking--will be a survival factor.
And afterward it will be one of the things which will make cultural
rebuilding worth while. So I won't quit trying. It isn't for nothing."

He stood up, not as tall as Owens, but broader and smoothly moving.
"Let me therefore have that manuscript back," he finished.

His enemy kept a half smile; but as he neared, Kintyre saw how cheeks
and forehead began to glisten. The pupils that stared at him widened
until they were two wells of dark.

"What are you talking about?" said Owens shrilly.

"You know bloody damn well what I mean. You took the Book of Witches.
Give it back and we'll say no more. Otherwise--"

Kintyre was almost upon the writer. Owens backed away, holding up his
cigarette like a futile sword. "Look here," he protested. "Look here,
now."

There came a rap on the door. Owens went limp with relief. "Come in!"
he yelled.

Kintyre realized bitterly how he had been snared. Owens had thrown
out words which he knew the other must stop to answer. It had gained
him a few seconds that might well make his victory; Kintyre took him
for a physical coward who would not have stood up long even to verbal
browbeating.

 Or did I actually intend to wring it from him with my hands?  The
thought was so shocking that Kintyre stepped back.

Gerald Clayton entered, massive in gray, his narrow face wearing only a
routine smile. It became more nearly genuine when he saw Kintyre. "Why,
hello, there," he said. "What's going on?"

Owens threw his opponent a look.  If you don't say anything about this,
I won't.  Kintyre held himself expressionless, waiting.

"Sit down, Mr. Clayton, do sit down." Owens gestured him to a chair. "I
appreciate your coming. I know your time is valuable."

The importer seated himself and took out a cigar. Owens hovered around
with his pocket flask; the drink was declined. Kintyre leaned against
the wall, arms folded, and strove for calm.

"I wasn't very busy," said Clayton. "Glad of a chance to get away, in
fact." He nodded at Kintyre and explained: "Something came up which
forces me to stay in Berkeley at least till tomorrow. But it involves
mostly waiting till I can see the person in question. So what did you
want, Jabez?"

Owens shot another glance at Kintyre, gathered himself, and said: "I
wondered if you'd be interested in selling the  Liber Veneficarum ?"

Clayton's mouth bent upward, creasing his lean cheeks. "Whatever for?"
he asked, almost merrily. "I'm a collector."

"Well." Owens sat down on the bed, more at ease now. "You're aware of
my argument with Bruce Lombardi. I admit it's possible I was cheated on
those letters--"  or commissioned the forgeries yourself , reflected
Kintyre--"and if not, at least the case against me deserves careful
refutation. So I would like to have the manuscript, to study at my own
leisure."

"And never get around to publishing your findings?" asked Clayton. But
he said it in a twitting, inoffensive tone.

"It might take me a few years," said Owens doggedly. "I've other work
to do. However, I'm prepared to make a fair offer for the book. Or, if
you don't want to sell, I would like to borrow it for a year or two,
under suitable guarantees against loss."

Clayton rubbed his chin. "Seems to me that Bob has some rights in this
matter," he declared.

Kintyre stepped a pace forward. His voice snapped out: "The reason I
came here is that the manuscript was stolen from me."

"What?" Clayton shouted it, half rose, sat down again and puffed hard
at his cigar. "What happened?" he said roughly.

Kintyre related the morning. "It fits pretty well," he concluded.
"First he plans an attempt to bribe me, as he tried to bribe Bruce.
Did you know he offered Bruce five thousand dollars to withhold his
findings? I mention on the phone I'll be going out to lunch. Since he
doesn't really expect I'll bribe either, Owens hangs around. When he
sees me leave, he ducks up into my office. If the book isn't there, he
can always try the original scheme. But it's right on my desk, and I
apologize for my own carelessness. Owens takes it back here. Then, to
cover himself, he phones you with this offer to buy--as if he didn't
know it was gone!"

Kintyre finished in a growl: "That suitcase on the floor, already
packed, would hold a quarto volume very easily."

Clayton remained impassive.

The writer said with strained calm: "I ask you to witness this, sir.
I'm thinking of a suit for slander."

"That book is worth enough to make it theft grand larceny," said
Clayton.

"And what alibi does the good Professor Kintyre have?" flung Owens.

"Who but you has a motive for the book to disappear?" said Kintyre. "By
God--"

Owens got off the bed and retreated again. Kintyre strode up to him and
laid a hand about his wrist. He did not squeeze unduly hard, but Owens
opened his mouth to scream, face going paper colored. Kintyre dropped
the wrist as if it had turned incandescent. The reaction was unnatural
enough, to his mind, to jar him physically.

"That'll do!" rumbled Clayton. He stood up. His grizzled ruddy hair
made Kintyre think of a lion's mane, a fighting cock's comb; this man
had slugged his own way up from nothingness.

"That'll do," he repeated. "If we can't settle it between ourselves
like gentlemen, we'd better call the police."

Owens fumbled his way to the pocket flask, raised it and gulped. A
little blood returned to his skin. "I thought you were going to hit
me," he said in a tiny voice. "I never could--"

"Owens," said Clayton, "did you steal the book?" His tone fell like
iron.

"No." The writer put his flask down on the bureau. He remained standing
above it, leaning on his hands, looking back over a hunched shoulder.
"No, of course not."

"Mind if we look around to make sure?"

"I don't wish my baggage opened," said Owens. "You haven't the right."

Kintyre, with a measure of control restored to him, said: "We could
prefer charges and have the police look."

"Go ahead," said Owens more firmly. "I'll sue you for every nickel
you've got. I'd enjoy that."

"I don't like trouble," said Clayton. "If you have the book, return it.
We'll say you--borrowed it--nobody else ever has to hear a word."

Owens whirled around. "That's a reflection on my integrity!" he shouted.

"If you really are innocent," said Clayton in a patient way, "I should
think you'd want your integrity confirmed."

Owens studied them for a moment.

"All right," he said. "I don't blame you, Mr. Clayton. Your reaction is
very understandable. But this character--Mr. Clayton, in case I decide
to sue him, and I probably will, remember exactly what happened today.
Now go ahead and search."

The importer squatted by the suitcase. It didn't take him long to go
through the neatly packed clothing. There was no book.




10


"Somewhere else," mumbled Kintyre. "Under the bed."

"Stand aside," said Clayton.

He went to work, peering, poking, moving about the room and its bath
like a professional. He found places to check which Kintyre would not
have thought of in a week's hunt; and yet the broad ropy-veined hands,
which had once wielded a shovel, made little disarrangement.

Owens sat down, poured himself another drink, and sipped as if it were
victory he tasted. Kintyre stood by the window sill, wrestling himself
toward calm. He had not yet fully achieved it when Clayton said: "Not
in here."

"Well," murmured Owens.

Clayton puffed blue smoke, sat down on the bed, and gave them both a
quizzical glance. "I suppose an apology is in order," he said.

Owens waved his cigarette. "Look," he replied, giving it the complete
treatment, "I've cooled off a bit myself. I can see how you were
overwrought, Professor, from the death of your friend--and, to be sure,
the loss of a valuable relic entrusted to you." Kintyre held his mouth
stiff. "If you'll take this as a lesson, I for my part am willing to
forget it."

"You might thank the man, Bob," added Clayton lightly.

Kintyre grunted. What could you say?

"It's worth while reviewing the facts, though," went on Clayton. "Maybe
between us we can figure who did swipe it."

"No students around," said Owens.

"True. But anybody could have lounged outside till Bob left and then
walked up into his office, without much risk of being seen. Right?"

Kintyre nodded. His neck ached with tension.

"Okay." Clayton blew a smoke ring. "I guess we can rule out an ordinary
thief. He wouldn't pick a college building. How about other people with
offices there?"

Kintyre stirred. "Now, wait," he began.

Clayton waved him back. "Take it easy, Bob. Just for the record, is
anybody but you working in that place between sessions?"

"Well, some," he forced himself to say. "It's a sizable department. And
then the clerical staff, and janitors. But for God's sake!"

"Their own office doors wouldn't be locked, though?"

"Hm? No, I suppose not. At least, a number wouldn't be. Even if they
weren't in today, there'd be nothing to steal."

"Except manuscripts." Owens had been seated, listening with a tolerant
smile. Now he said in a cool voice, "Not to follow the recent bad
example of accusations, but what  is  your alibi, Kintyre?"

"No motive!"

"Oh? I daresay there are other wealthy collectors besides Mr. Clayton.
With your contacts, you could have learned who they are. Mind you, I
don't charge you with anything, but--"

"Cut it out," interrupted Clayton. It was so cold a phrase that they
both turned startled faces to him.

He got up. "This farce has gone on long enough," he said. "Jabez, give
me my book."

"What?" Owens leaned away. Clayton walked toward him. Owens lifted a
fending arm.

"I don't feel like hunting through a lot of rooms for it," said
Clayton. "Which did you leave it in?"

"But--but--but--"

"Do I have to spell it out? It's plain to see, either you or Bob took
the thing. Who the hell else is there? I credit Bob with brains enough
to steal it more neatly. Like setting an 'accidental' fire he could
tell me burned it. You had to work fast, though. Play by ear. You
grabbed it exactly as Bob thought. Only you realized he'd come back in
a few minutes and go howling on your trail. What better way to throw
him off it than to let him make a fool of himself before me--me, the
owner, who's really got a right to blow his stack?"

Clayton stood over Owens with the big fists on his hips, beating him
about the head with words. "You left it in one of those empty offices,
or maybe in the can. They won't lock the main entrance till five
o'clock or so, I guess. You could have picked the thing up again at
your convenience, when Bob had gone off with his tail between his legs.
It was fun while it lasted, Jabez, but now suppose you tell me where
that book is."

"I didn't!" screamed Owens.

"I don't want to press charges," said Clayton. "Tell me, and we'll call
it quits. Otherwise we can all wait right here for the police."

Owens began to shake. Kintyre looked away, feeling a little sick
himself. "All right," said Clayton and picked up the phone.

"No," whimpered Owens. "Don't."

"Well?" Clayton paused, one finger in a dial hole.

Owens got out a room number. "Under the desk," he added, and lowered
his face into his hands.

"Can we check that from here?" asked Clayton.

Kintyre nodded, took the phone and called the department. He asked one
of the girls to look, feeding her a story about having lent the volume
out. Then he held the line and waited.

"Well," said Clayton. He drew on his cigar, relaxed visibly, and
laughed. "Maybe I ought to set up as a private eye. Know any
hard-boiled blondes?"

"Nice work," said Kintyre inadequately. "Good Lord, if that book really
had been lost!"

"It wouldn't have been your fault," said Clayton. "Forget it."

Kintyre looked down at a shuddering back. "It seems to be my turn now,
Owens," he said. "No hard feelings.  Va' tu con Dio. "

"No," said Clayton. "I'm afraid not."

Kintyre stared up again, into the narrow face and the deeply ridged
eyes. "I thought," he said, "I thought you wouldn't--"

"Prefer charges? Not about a lousy manuscript. My time's worth too
much. But Bruce Lombardi was murdered, remember?"

Owens lifted a seared countenance and gasped: "No, you can spare me
that much, can't you?"

"I hope so," said Clayton impersonally. "But the fact remains, Bruce
was a threat to a fat piece of Hollywood cash."

"He was going to expose the Borgia fraud publicly, as well as in
specialized journals," said Kintyre, not wanting to.

"That made it even more urgent," said Clayton. "If Bruce should die and
the book disappear, I don't know who'd stand to benefit more than you."

Owens emitted a little moaning noise and shriveled back into the mask
of his hands. "You see?" said Clayton.

"Wait," protested Kintyre. "I can't really believe he--"

"I'm open to proof," said Clayton.

Kintyre fell silent.

After a while the girl's voice said in the phone: "I found it, Dr.
Kintyre. Right where you told me."

"Thanks a lot," he answered automatically. "Would you put it in the
safe?" He nodded and hung up.

"Good," said Clayton. He spoke slowly and carefully to Owens' bent
head: "We'll leave now. You stay around Berkeley for a while. I'm going
to have to call your motive to the attention of the police, so if you
left there'd probably be a warrant for you by tonight. But I won't say
anything about your peccadillo this afternoon. And if you're innocent,
I recommend that you start scrounging around for witnesses to where you
were all weekend."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Whoof!" said Kintyre when he was in the lobby. "I wouldn't like to go
through that again."

"Nor I," said Clayton. "Let's have something wet."

They went into the coffee shop and ordered. Kintyre said: "Owens didn't
do the murder. I doubt if he's capable of killing his own flies."

"Himself," said Clayton shortly. "He could have hired a torpedo. He's
got money enough. Not that killers come fabulously expensive."

Almost, Kintyre told him of last night. He stopped with the words at
his teeth. After this hour's performance, it seemed too probable that
Clayton would insist on telling the San Francisco authorities about
Larkin, on the instant, and the consequences to Guido (and thereby to
Guido's parents and Corinna) go hang.

 As far as that goes, I suppose I've made myself an accessory after the
fact or something. 

They remained in a companionable silence until the coffee had arrived.
It was refreshing to know an unfrantic businessman; but then, Clayton
had acquired a lot of European traits.

The importer asked suddenly: "Have you seen Miss Towne?"

"Not today," said Kintyre, surprised.

"Were you planning to?"

"Why--yes. I thought I'd drop around this afternoon. She told me she
didn't feel up to working for the rest of this week."

"It might be better if she did," said Clayton. "She'll sit at home and
grieve, or go out and laugh more than she means. Drinking too much in
either case."

"You seem to know her pretty well," said Kintyre. He felt a bit
annoyed, he didn't know why.

"I met her a few times is all. But she's pretty transparent, under all
that careful sophistication, isn't she?" Clayton stirred his coffee,
focusing on the spoon as if it were some precision instrument. "A good
kid."

"She's all right," said Kintyre.

"I suppose you feel an obligation toward her?"

Kintyre bridled. "I didn't mean to keyhole," said Clayton hurriedly.
"I just couldn't help wondering what'll become of her. Somebody has to
help her over the hump. She'll never make it alone."

Against his own principles of respect for privacy, Kintyre found
himself speculating. Where had Clayton picked up such intuitions? His
first wife, whom he had loved, seemed by his few chance remarks and
his  Who's Who  biography to have been the conventional helpmeet of
a conventional young man in the thirties: grocery clerk, salesman,
pitchforked down by the Depression, up again via WPA to construction
foreman to warehouse foreman to minor executive. Finally she got
tuberculosis, with complications, and took a couple of years to die.
The medical bills ruined him; he parked the three children with
relatives for years. Afterward, on the way up once more in the defense
boom and the early war boom, he married the boss's daughter. He got to
be general superintendent of an aircraft plant before he learned what
a bitch she was. The divorce cost him that job and his savings. He
applied for an Army commission and got one in 1943.

Kintyre knew little else; his information was only the gossip one is
bound to encounter. Clayton had been a fairly large figure in Italy
when Kintyre went over for the second time.

"Eh?" he said, pulled back to awareness.

"I asked if you wanted to take her out tonight," repeated Clayton.

"Uh--"

"Somebody ought to." As if he had heard Kintyre's thoughts, Clayton
said with an enormous gentleness: "She reminds me a lot of my daughter."

Clayton had never had any great chance to be a father, reflected
Kintyre. After the war, his kids ended up in exclusive boarding schools
while Dad was overseas reaping the money to keep them there. Now
they were grown. The girl had been graduated last year and was still
making her Grand Tour. Clayton sometimes bragged about her, in clumsy
generalities: he scarcely knew her as a person. The second son was also
worth a cautious boast or two, apparently a solid-citizen type, an
engineer; he and his father doubtless exchanged very dutiful letters.
The older boy, you didn't hear much about. You got an impression of
a sinecure in the firm's New York office and divorce number three
currently going through the mill.

Kintyre wondered, suddenly, if he had ever known anyone more alone than
Clayton.

It came to him that an answer was expected. "No," he said, "I have
another engagement this evening."

"Not one you could break? She does need help."

"So does Miss Lombardi. Bruce's sister. I have some news for her that
could make a big difference."

Clayton paused a moment. Then he grinned. "Well, in that case," he
said, "d'you mind if I squire Miss Towne?"

Kintyre looked up, startled. He had been slipping into a mood of utter
oleaginous sentimentalism. Pity Clayton? The hell! You wouldn't think
the man was past forty. He sat there with more life in his eyes than
two buccaneer captains.

"Good heavens, no," exclaimed Kintyre. "Why ever should I?"

 Margery could do a lot worse , he thought. He knew his eagerness
was chiefly to get rid of whatever responsibility he bore for her.
Nevertheless-- A lot worse! 




11


It was after four when Kintyre entered Margery's apartment. She had
neglected its housekeeping, and the air was acrid with smoke.

Slacks and sweater emphasized her figure. He had almost forgotten how
good it was. When she sprang from the couch and into his arms he found
himself kissing her without really having intended to.

"Oh, God, Bob," she whispered. "You came. Hold me close, kiss me again,
I need it."

Her nails dug into his flesh, painfully, and her lips were tense
against his. And yet it was but little a sexual passion, he realized;
she was altogether forlorn.

"Rough?" he asked. He freed one arm and rumpled the short coppery hair.

"Reporters," she said. "Waiting at the door when I came home today.
Like flies around a corpse."

The phone rang. She left it alone; the bell had been turned down. "Most
likely someone else panting to pry," she said.

"How--oh, yes," said Kintyre. "The burglary would put them on to it. Or
just asking around. You didn't really think your connection with Bruce
would escape discovery forever?"

"It'll be smeared over every newsstand in the area. Big black
mouth-licking headlines." She raised reddened eyes. "I was at the
service this morning. It was all so calm and--I don't know--so right.
Even for him." She pulled herself away, picked up a handkerchief and
blew her nose. "Excuse me. I can't help it. That was the only sane part
of the day. His parents were there, of course, that decent old couple.
I didn't have the nerve to talk to them. And now they'll see! They'll
know that every moron in town knows their son they were so proud of
was, was, with me!"

She fell into a chair, coughing. The phone stopped its petulance.

Kintyre said: "After all, pony, it's no crime in this state. Nor is it
a very black sin in the Church. I wouldn't be at all surprised if the
Lombardis got in touch with you in the friendliest way. If you loved
Bruce too--"

"Did I?" She didn't look at him. "I liked him, yes, but love? Not in
the usual sense of the word."

"Which is a pretty neurotic sense anyway, if you're past adolescence,"
said Kintyre in his driest voice.

She had regained her balance. She reached for a compact and began
repairing her makeup. "Bob," she said, "for an intelligent man you can
make some of the stupidest remarks on record."

Kintyre smiled. "At least I riled you out of a tailspin." He wandered
across the room to the coffee table. An empty cup and an ashtray
overflowing with lipsticked butts rested by the long cardboard boxes
where Bruce had kept his letters. They were open, and one of the sheets
lay out.

Margery came over and took his arm. "I was going through it," she
said, suddenly anxious for the everyday. "Mostly it was business
correspondence, official papers, that sort of thing. But there's one
file in Italian. Maybe you can tell me what it means." The phone
buzzed. "Shut up, God damn it!"

Kintyre sat down, taking out a cigarette for himself. He did not quite
like reading a dead man's mail. But doubtless it had to be done. "I'll
make some more coffee," said Margery. She went out to the kitchen;
his eyes shifted in her direction and he felt the animal pleasure of
watching her walk. It was possible--once more, after a decent interval?

Then he realized that the lilt within him was because he would be
seeing Corinna.

He bent his attention to the file. Sloppy in many other respects, Bruce
had been meticulous here. If it was likely to have any future value at
all, he typed his own letter, making a carbon for himself, and kept the
reply, folded. The section indexed  Luigi Lombardi  held at least a
year's worth of mail.

Luigi. Oh, yes, the uncle in the secret service, amateur scholar--hoy,
there! L. L., of course. Kintyre felt chagrined. So much for that
mystery. Bruce had only been noting those sections where he would be
making an acknowledgment of his uncle's help.

Kintyre began leafing through. No point in reading every word about
Aunt Sofia's arthritis or Cousin Giovanni's marriage. But there were
pages, where Luigi described exactly what he had looked into for Bruce,
that had not yet been transcribed. Those should be preserved, they were
essential to the completion of the thesis.

Nothing else had occurred to Kintyre than that it would be finished and
published, under Bruce's name.

Yes. Here was that reference to the Milanese archives. It concluded:
"... would like to look through the libraries and store-rooms of
the older aristocratic homes in this neighborhood. Quite possibly a
contemporary reference exists, in a letter or diary. But the time and
the introductions are not available to a poor policeman. Why do you not
ask your rich American friend Clayton to have it done?"

Bruce's reply was grateful, but forebore to answer that faintly
sarcastic question. Uncle Luigi took it up next time. Kintyre
remembered the man, how he tried hard to be fair but was unable to
refrain from cracks about Americans. It was only natural, if you were
the patriot of a poor country: a form of self-defense.

"... Not another Medici. Do you seriously believe he cares about these
old books? It is his particular camouflage, to get him among people of
breeding who can be useful. His real friends are a coarser sort, if
indeed he has any friends except his bank accounts."

Bruce protested: "... He had to make his own way in a world of fists.
I think he has done very well, not only as a financier but as a human
being. You cannot safely compare him with your own postwar newly-rich.
From what I hear, many of them are crasser than any American parvenu
ever dared to be. But let us not exchange ritual insults."

Uncle Luigi answered a query about the Sicilian terrain and twisted
it around to his particular obsession: "... if you believe his
standardized success story. Use your reason, my nephew. Clayton was
an Army officer in this country during the last two years of the war.
After his discharge, he came right back here. It is uncertain what he
did in the next couple of years. Out of a slightly malicious curiosity
I checked with the appropriate bureau, and he was registered only as
a visitor, who went in and out of our borders. Then suddenly, in 1949,
he applied for his business permits. He had obtained the American
agency for that new line of motor scooters. Since then, his rise has
been somewhat swifter than can be accounted for merely by pyramiding
profits. What follows from this, Bruce? (And again I ask why your
father had to become so American that he visited that name upon you.)
Why, since he had only his military pay during the war, and on his
civilian return had no source of income within Italy for two years--he
must have been drawing on a considerable capital in America! Our
records show him obtaining most of his lire for Swiss francs. Evidently
he deposits his dollars in Switzerland, which you know has a free money
market, converts them to other currencies as needed, buys goods, and
ships those to America to earn more dollars. Therefore all this story
he has told you (what is your phrase, from rags to Algernon?) is so
much pretentious hokum. Clayton started as a rich man."

Margery came in with coffee. "What are you finding out?" she asked.

"Mostly gossip," said Kintyre. He repeated the gist to her.

"Oh, I remember that. It was several months ago." She sat down on the
couch beside him. "Bruce was furious. He thought the world of Clayton.
He wrote to Indianapolis and Des Moines and so on. It took him weeks to
check everything, through local newspaper offices, old friends, that
kind of reference. It's perfectly true, though. I doubt if Clayton had
a thousand dollars left to his name when he joined the Army.

"Bruce hadn't gotten around to it yet, but he was going to assemble the
facts, with clippings and personal correspondence, and send it all to
Luigi in one devastating package. Especially after the last couple of
letters he got. Luigi said there was no evidence Clayton had floated
a loan to get his start, and wondered if he mightn't have done some
currency black marketing. Bruce really blew his top at that."

"Oh?" said Kintyre. He should be on his way soon, he thought, and use
the short time until then to be good to Margery. But a certain sense
of the chase was on him. Trained to scan reading matter, he found the
passage he wanted in a few minutes. Bruce's anger spoke through a cage
of civilized words:

"... I am not one of our radical rightists, but I too resent this
eternal meddling which is the modern idea of government. It would not
surprise me if Clayton profited originally on the free exchange, when
the postwar official rates were so ludicrously unreal. Who didn't, in
those days? But if so, I say he did you all a service! I swear you
could double your production over there simply by abolishing those
medieval frontiers and restrictions, and putting the customs men to
useful jobs!"

Luigi, after the inevitable reference to American tariffs, wrote: "The
problem is more serious and urgent than you understand. One hears less
about it than about your similar troubles, but we in the old countries
are having our own postwar crime wave. And some of these syndicates
are--not mere black markets, not mere smugglers of an occasional
perfume bottle--but dealers in narcotics, prostitution, gun-running,
extortion, blackmail, counterfeiting, corruption, and murder.

"Yes, I blame your government in part. We watch the criminals they
deport to us, but we cannot forbid everyone to come talk to them. There
is influence, there is advice. From the Communists these syndicates
have also learned much, including the cell type of organization. We
can arrest a man here and a man there, but he can only lead us to
a few others. Sometimes we think we have identified an organizing
brain, but it does not always follow that he can be seized. Not even
in this country, where the police have a latitude that I am sure your
Anglo-Saxon mind would be shocked by. I name no names, but now and
again something rises to the surface, a scandal, the corpse of a
young woman who belonged to a proud family, a member of the parliament
seen in dubious places--and nothing comes of it. The newspapers are
forbidden to follow the story to its end; everywhere protecting hands
are reached out.

"Give us time, we will settle with these latter-day  condottieri .
Meanwhile, I could wish your Clayton were more circumspect in his
choice of friends. He associates somewhat (not very much, to be sure,
and there are business reasons) with a dealer named Dolce. And Dolce
is a hard man from the slums of Naples. One of  his  associates is the
deported Italian-American criminal chief named--"

Bruce's reply to this was a single explosive line: "And you used to
wring your hands at me about Senator McCarthy!"

Kintyre put the box aside. He had been translating as he read, in a
rapid mutter. "That's the end," he said. "Bruce wrote that two weeks
ago, and I guess the uncle hasn't replied yet."

"Clayton," said Margery on a note of horror. "Do you think maybe--?"

"That he's a crook? No. I don't know much about it, but I should
certainly imagine that anybody who wanted to keep an import license
would have to keep his nose pretty clean. If Clayton started hanging
around with, oh, say Chicago gunmen, the FBI would be on his tail in a
matter of weeks."

"But couldn't he--"

"Forget Clayton. He's alibied for every minute of that weekend. As for
hiring professionals, look, pony, suppose you wanted such a job done.
How would you find the pros?"

"Why--" She hesitated, lifting a small hand to her chin. "I don't know."

"You're a law-abiding citizen, so you don't know. Clayton is also
reasonably law-abiding. He's got to be. The Italian police might
conceivably not be aware of it if Clayton were doing something
illicit. Over there, he could operate internationally. But the United
States is another proposition. We talk about our free enterprise, but
the plain fact is that an American businessman is required to operate
in a goldfish bowl, under innumerable petti-fogging regulations.
So, I repeat, Clayton must be more or less straight. Even if the US
government was unable to indict him for anything, they could rescind
his various licenses, virtually by fiat.

"How, then, would he get in touch with an assassin? Walk into a tough
bar and ask? Large laugh." Kintyre threw away his cigarette stub. "Oh,
sure, given enough time, you or I or anyone could locate a murderer.
But this job must have been done on short notice. There was nothing in
Bruce's previous life to bring it on. You know how burblesome he was;
could he have kept from you, for weeks, the fact that he knew something
big? Of course not. Nor from me, or any of his associates. Ergo, it was
something he blundered onto lately, probably without even realizing its
significance. The person who was threatened by this had to react fast:
find his killers and get them here, or do the job himself, within days.
That lets Clayton out."

Margery nodded, a trifle overwhelmed. "I'm glad," she said. "I like
him, the little I've seen."

"Yeh." Kintyre thought a couple of hours back. "Me too."

She smiled. "But there's still something that he isn't telling. I'm
curious to know what."

"You may have your chance to find out tonight," said Kintyre. "I saw
him and he mentioned he would call up and ask for a dinner date."

"Oh!" She looked at him, round-eyed. "And I haven't been answering!"

Kintyre laughed. "Turn up that phone bell right away, gal."

She shook her head. The blue eyes darkened with pain. "Only so I could
say no in a nice way."

"Huh?"

"I'm not interested. Not yet." For an instant, there was a brightening
across her face. "Unless you, Bob--"

"Sorry, kid. I'm tied up tonight." He checked his watch. "In fact, I
should have left already."

"Oh," she said listlessly.

"Look here," he said. He took her by the shoulders and forced her to
turn around and meet his gaze. "This can only go on so long, then they
put you in the foundry. Bruce is dead. We're still alive. Start acting
like it."

"It's only been--two days? Three?" She twisted away from him. "Give me
time to get used to it."

"You never will, at this rate. I know you."

"You should," she said with a flick of anger. "Your castoff mistress."

"Castoff, hellfire! We terminated an association which--"

"Yes, yes. I've heard that line too. You warned me and so on. Go ahead,
call yourself a gentleman."

" Maròn! " He sprang to his feet and paced the floor. She leaned back
and watched him, breathing hard.

Eventually his temper cooled. "Margery," he said, "I think I know what
Bruce meant to you. Besides being someone you cared for, I mean. He was
your chance at emotional security, wasn't he? A home, children. Why
don't you admit it, you'll always be the little girl from Ohio, and
what's wrong with that? The average man will breed the unaverage one
again, someday when the human race gets back its health. He has before.
But these hipster types are a biological and cultural dead end.

"I can't build your house in Ohio for you. Forget me. Bruce was not
your last chance, but if you sit on your tocus feeling sorry for
yourself, he will have been. Get the devil out of this hole!"

"Thanks for the counsel," she said. It fell flatly on his ears. The
rising fury tinted her and tensed her; she spoke through jaws held
stiff. "So much cheaper than help, isn't it? But it happens I choose to
stay home tonight. Alone. Starting at once."

Kintyre stopped in midstride. "I'm sorry," he said. "I'm not sure what
I did wrong just now, but I'm sorry."

She slumped. "Please go away," she said without tone. "Call me tomorrow
if you want, but please go away now."

"All right," he said.

She didn't stir as he went out the door.

He walked fast, being late. Anger changed to concern, and then that
faded too, when he had Corinna to think about. Margery would be feeling
better tomorrow, he could make friends again. At the moment, he needed
a bath and a shave and a change of clothes.

Headlines on a news rack caught his eye, an extra edition. Peter and
Eugene Michaelis had been arrested on suspicion of murder.




12


Corinna had an apartment on a quiet street not far from Golden Gate
Park. Kintyre had been told by Bruce that she worked on the staff of
a small art museum, belonged to a little theater group, owned a light
target rifle, and made most of her own clothes. He had seen for himself
that she spoke Italian. That was all. He felt ridiculously like a
schoolboy on his first date.

She opened her door and smiled him in. High heels put her almost on a
level with him. She wore black, which set off her pale hair, but the
sleeves flared and the skirt swirled: it was not mourning.

"I'm nearly ready, Dr. Kintyre. Won't you sit down? Watch out for the
cat, she bites."

Kintyre enjoyed cats; he would have kept one himself if he had
wanted to assume obligations. This was that loveliest of the tribe, a
blue-point Siamese, white as new snow and markings like twilight. She
flowed up toward his extended fist as he settled in a chair. "What's
the name?" he asked.

"Taffimai Metallumai," said Corinna, returning to her
bedroom. "If you remember your Kipling, that means
Small-Person-Without-Any-Manners-Who-Ought-To-Be-Spanked. But she lives
under the name of Tipsy. Gold letters over her door, and so on."

He looked around. This room was individualistically decorated, she
must have done it herself, in reds and blues and a couple of delicate
Chinese paintings. Her books ran toward poetry, drama, and art; but one
shelf held the popular works of Gamow, Russell, Ley, and company. There
was a medium-fi and a lot of good records.

Taffimai Metallumai levitated up onto his lap, gave him a sleepy
turquoise look, and ordered him to scratch her beneath the chin. She
was pure hard muscle under the virginal fur; she must weigh twice as
much as any peasant cat her size.

Kintyre took his attention from the corner where a small worktable held
an unfinished papier-maché mask. Corinna was coming back in. "That was
quick," he said, rising.

"Oh, don't! You're catted! Oh, dear!"

He looked at his gashed thumb. Tipsy told him in a few well chosen
words that he had no business upsetting her without warning.

Corinna's eyes were green distress. "People never do believe my
warning," she said, "and then Snow Leopard j.g. makes a lunch off them
and--Can I tell you how sorry I am?"

"Occupational hazard if you like cats," Kintyre answered. "And I do. We
might put on some stickum, just for appearances."

She regarded him closely. "I believe you mean that," she said. "Thank
you." She led him to the bathroom. The route gave him a glimpse of her
kitchen and a crammed shelf of herbs and spices.

"Instead of going out," he said as he repaired the damage, "I could
probably get a better dinner here."

"Why, I hadn't prepared anything, but--"

"Nonsense. Maybe you'll give me a rain check. Let's go."

Tipsy assured him that she bore no hard feelings, and he stroked
her with real pleasure. It occurred to him that there was something
pathetic about Margery's little caged parakeet, set beside this
beautiful killing engine.

"You're quite a scientist," he remarked, nodding at the books.

"Only as a spectator," said Corinna. "I would have liked to get a
degree in math, but we hadn't the money and I was needed to help in the
restaurant." Her explanation was unresentful.

He helped her into her coat and they went down to his car. "Where are
we going?" she asked.

"I know a Dutch place near Russian Hill," he told her. "Ever been
there? No? Good. Dutch cuisine is badly underrated. It's fully
comparable to the French, in its own way."

She fell silent. He stole a look at the Egyptian profile; it was grave
again.

"Forgive me if I'm tactless," he said.

"You aren't. You're very kind to come and--What good would we do Bruce,
sitting around with our faces dragging on the floor?"

"I thought as much myself," he ventured. "But then, I was only a
friend."

"Bruce never had a better one. I rather imagine you knew him more
intimately than any of his kin. He grew away from us, toward something
of his own. As was right, of course."

Kintyre had no reply.

"And then," she said in a matter-of-fact tone, "he was good. Not holy,
but good. I don't think he will be too long in Purgatory."

Kintyre, for whom the soul was a metaphor, had to think over every
aspect of her remark until he could understand that, quite simply, she
believed it. That was not a consolation he wished to take from her.

"But damn," she whispered, "I'll miss him!"

They drove on in silence. At last she said, more awkwardly than the
average modern woman: "I have to ask you about one thing. I saw a
newspaper today. This girl he--he knew--"

"Yes," said Kintyre, focusing intently on the traffic. "I know her.
They were living together. She's an altogether fine person who would
have made him a wonderful wife. Bruce was very much in love with her
and wanted to get married. She hesitated only because she--was afraid
she might hurt him--she would have changed her mind soon. They were
happy."

Corinna sighed. He could almost feel how she relaxed. "Thank you," she
said. "I have a lot to thank you for, haven't I? We needn't say any
more about this except--if the girl would like to see me, or have me
visit her, I'd be more than glad to."

"I think so," said Kintyre. "In a few more days."

At once he damned himself for an idiot. He had spoken truth; but it
gave Margery the chance to relate a few truths of her own, if she
chose, and what might come of that?

They spoke little for the remainder of the drive. It was, somehow, a
restful quietness.

It was broken when they stepped from the car. Another news rack faced
them, with ARREST FATHER, SON FOR LOMBARDI MURDER staggering across the
page.

Corinna drew a gasp. She snatched Kintyre's hand with fingers that were
suddenly cold. " Santa Maria ," she mumbled.

He steadied her. "Easy, there," he said.

"I knew it." Her voice came saw-toothed. "I knew it was them. What does
it say?"

He bent over the page. "Not much more than that. Picked up this
afternoon on suspicion, father and son. No details."

"It'll be out tomorrow. Everything. And then the trial."

"I thought you were all for this," he said. "You were convinced of
their guilt and--"

"I wasn't thinking. I was only hurt, and tired. No, I don't want it to
be this way." Slowly, she stiffened herself. "But so be it, then. Can I
have a drink?"

"You can have more than that." He steered her along the sidewalk. She
still moved a little unsurely. "You can have the news I mainly came to
give you."

"What?"

"The Michaelises are not guilty."

A bar stood by their path. He led her inside, to a booth. The drab
routine of checking Corinna's age seemed to help calm her. She asked
for straight Irish whisky, he took beer.

Only then did she challenge him: "How do you know?"

"It's a long story," he said, "and frankly, I'm not certain how much of
it you should hear. So suppose you begin by telling me why you think
they did it."

"The police--"

"Uh-huh. They paid a little more attention to your ideas than you
thought. They checked and found Gene had dropped out of sight over the
weekend. He and his father refused to cooperate, doubtless being very
surly about it, so now they're in the calaboose. But what could their
motive have been in the first place?"

Her fingers twisted together. "Oh, all that business years ago, when
their boat rammed Dad's."

"What more? It's something to do with you, isn't it?"

"Yes. Nothing disgraceful, I suppose. But ugly. A million people
sniggering over this new revelation about our family--isn't there going
to be end to it, ever?"

The drinks came. She tossed hers off recklessly and asked for another.
While she waited, and he worked on his beer, she looked squarely across
the table at him and said:

"Gene came back from the Navy last summer. He looked up Bruce in
Berkeley. Bruce took him home to our parents for dinner; I happened to
be there too. Gene gave me quite a play. He could be very charming. We
had a number of dates." The color crept into her face, but she went
on: "Yes, he did his best to seduce me. When that didn't work, he
asked me to marry him. Every time we went out, it would end up with a
proposal--and a wrestling match. I liked him, though. And he'd moved
back to San Francisco from the Eastbay, taken a different job, just to
be near me. Who wouldn't be flattered, and touched? But I finally had
to lay down the law. It was a fight, physically, to make him behave. I
caught a taxi home."

The waitress came back. Corinna picked up her second glass and sipped
slowly. "He apologized the next day," she said, "but I told him I
couldn't go out with him any more. He seemed to take it pretty well,
said he would go back to Chicago--he'd spent a lot of time there
once--but he asked for some kind of send-off. I--I spoke to Bruce.
Gene had always been an admirer of Bruce. Odd, that big, husky,
world-tramping fellow, admiring Bruce. We couldn't just drop him like
that. We arranged a double date for a weekend early in December, a trip
down to Carmel. I knew Bruce was in love, he couldn't hide that, but I
asked him to take a friend of mine from the theater. It would make the
atmosphere different. Safer, I thought."

Corinna stared into her drink. "We got a couple of hotel rooms down
there," she said flatly. "We did a little drinking. Gene did more than
a little. He made several open passes at me. I was afraid of a fight,
but this girl and I got to bed at last. Back in their room, Gene's and
Bruce's, Gene kept on drinking. He urged Bruce to come with him, into
our room. Well, what would you expect? Bruce lost his temper and threw
a punch at him. It couldn't have hurt--outside--but I wonder what it
did to Gene, really. He started screaming about how we were all against
him. I could hear him through the wall. We'd come down in his car. He
said we could all find our own way home, he staggered out to his car
and drove back along the highway--drunk."

Corinna brought her voice under control again. "That's all. We heard of
the accident after we got home next day on the bus. We went to see him
in the hospital as soon as we could. How he cursed us! Bruce was crying
too, when we left."

"I know," said Kintyre. "I saw him a day or so later." And, briefly, he
told her what Margery had done.

She seemed to thaw before his eyes. "If there could be such a thing as
a blessed sin--"

"Now let's return to business," said Kintyre. "I want to get the
nightmare off your back.  Imprimis , how sorry are you for Gene?
Actually?"

She hesitated. At last: "That's impossible to answer."

"He got what he asked for. It's pure luck the man in the other car
wasn't killed."

"I suppose so." Hardness grew along her jawline. "And if he murdered my
brother--how does the saying go? God may forgive him, but I never can."

"Good. However,  secundus : He was not involved in Bruce's death."

"What makes you so certain?" she demanded, almost belligerently.

"Let me tell you what happened last night."  Was it only last night? 

He related it in a few words. She looked at him so strangely that he
was puzzled, until it came to him that not many college professors
enter waterfront tenements and throw people around.

"I hope you don't think I asked for the brawl," he finished. "I'm
ashamed of it. But it gave me the proof I needed."

Her hand stole out, toward the plaster on his forehead. "Is that how
you got hurt?" she asked softly.

"No." He continued hastily: "A strong possibility is that Bruce was
killed by professionals. Imported murderers are likeliest, since the
police will be seining all local toughs."

"Gene lived in Chicago," she murmured through tightened lips.

"Gene and his father are stonkering poor. Even if Gene has a murderer
friend, such a job would not be done just as a favor."

"Then they could have done it themselves, father and son."

"Look, we had a minor scrap, the three of us. Those walls are like
paper. Half the building heard it and came pounding on the door. Bruce
could not have been--hurt, as he was--in that place. It would have to
be somewhere else. Consider all the practical difficulties, finding an
abandoned warehouse or whatever. Getting an automobile, for heaven's
sake! Where would paupers like those two find the money to rent a car,
even for a day?

"Oh, well, if we stretch our reasoning all out of shape, we can say
they  might  have done all that. But one thing they could never have
managed, and that was to capture Bruce in the first place. He would
have tied them in bowknots."

"Bruce?" She was openly bewildered.

"Yes. Stop thinking of him as a mere bookworm. Bruce and I were going
to pack into Kings Canyon, which is still pretty wild. And he was
taking up judo, and doing quite well. A gun could have taken him
prisoner, of course, but the Michaelises don't have a gun; they'd have
gone for it last night if one were on the premises. So Bruce would have
had to be slugged from behind. But there was no mark of a club on his
body, no anesthetic--I have that from the police. Weaponless, neither
Gene nor his father could have held Bruce for ten seconds. They're
both strong, but they fall over themselves. I threw them with baby
techniques."

"That's right," she said, "you do go in for judo, don't you? But Bruce
said you were an expert."

"I only wear a brown belt so far. Bruce, of course, was a white.
He could not have coped with one or two men who knew how to handle
themselves--not necessarily judo men, just experienced fighters."
 Consider Terry Larkin.  "However, he could certainly have thrown two
unarmed Michaelises. Take my word for it. I know."

"Oh."

She studied her hands for a while.

"They'll be released in a few days at the outside," said Kintyre. "The
most elementary procedures will show they're innocent. I can think of a
dozen lines of proof myself. To be sure, you may be subjected to some
publicity before that happens, but it will never get as far as a grand
jury. Believe me."

"Thank you." When she smiled, he could see no other thing in all that
dingy building. "I always seem to be thanking you."

"Which I find pleasant enough," he bowed.

"Why don't we go down to the station and explain it right now?" she
asked hesitantly. "You're not afraid of being arrested for the fight,
are you? That wasn't your fault."

"Oh, no. But my testimony and my reasoning aren't legally conclusive,"
he evaded.

"It would help a lot. It might get them out, tip the scales. I feel so
sorry for them now. That poor old man!"

Kintyre looked straight into the green eyes. "Will you trust me a
little bit?" he said. "Will you take my word that we can't do it
immediately?"

 Because the police would inquire further. Did I indeed hurt my arm and
my head in that fracas? No, say the Michaelises. Where, then? I do not
think their search would end short of Guido, your brother. 

She bit her lip. "I hate to think of them locked up for something they
haven't done."

"At the present time," he said, "my story would compromise someone else
whom I also know to be innocent."

 Like hell I do. 

She sighed. "All right. That's good enough for me." And then, with the
morning of her smile upon him again: "You've done enough for one day's
knight errantry. Let's go eat."




13


The restaurant was small and quiet. Corinna and Kintyre had a corner
table, where the light fell gently.

"By rights we should have a Genever apéritif," he said, "but I'm
convinced Dutch gin is distilled from frogs. On the other hand, Dutch
beer compares to Hof, Rothausbräu, or Kronenbourg."

"You've traveled a lot, haven't you?" she said. "I envy you that. Never
got farther than the Sierras myself."

A little embarrassed--he had not been trying to play the
cosmopolite--he fell silent while she glanced at her menu. "Will you
order for me?" she asked finally. "You know your way around these
dishes."

He made his selections, pleased by the compliment. When the beer came,
in conical half-liter glasses, he raised his: " Prosit. "

" Salute. " She drank slowly. "Wonderful. But this may not be wise on
top of two whiskies."

"It's all right if you go easy. Take the word of a hardened bowser." He
searched out an inward weariness on the strong broad face. "You could
use a little anesthesia."

"Well--" She set her glass down. "Bear with me. I promise not to
blubber, but I may get sentimental. Or maybe even hilarious, I don't
know. I've never lost anyone close to me before now."

"I understand," said Kintyre.

"And please help me steer clear of myself," she added. "I would like
to talk about Bruce, and otherwise about wholly neutral things." She
managed a smile. "I've been meaning to ask you something. You're the
Machiavelli specialist. Our theater did  Mandragola  last year. Tell
me, how could the same man write that and  Il Principe ?"

"Actually," said Kintyre, "I would be surprised if the author of  The
Prince --or, rather, the  Discourses on Livy , since  The Prince  is
really just a pamphlet--I'd be surprised if he had not done sheer
amusement equally well. One of the more damnable heresies of this
era is its notion that a man can only be good at one thing. That
versatility is not the inborn human norm."

"I've often thought the same," she said. "I suppose you know Bruce
changed his major to history because of you. He took one of your
classes as a freshman. Now I see why."

"Well," he stalled, and hoisted his beer.

She shifted the conversation with a tact he appreciated: "But how did
you happen to get interested in it, in the Italian Renaissance yet,
with a name like yours?"

"I served time in one of those private schools back East," he said.
"The Romance languages master got me enthusiastic."

He paused, then continued slowly: "I entered Harvard, but Pearl
Harbor happened in my sophomore year. I was in the Navy the whole
war, the Pacific; fell in love with the Bay Area on my shore leaves,
which is why I came here to live afterward. But during the war I
had a lot of time to read and try to think where this world was
going. To the wolves, I decided--like Machiavelli's world--I suppose
that's why I feel so close to him. He was also studying the problem
of how the decent man can survive. He spoke the truth as he saw it,
because he didn't think that civilization should be encumbered with
nice-nellyisms that the barbarians had already discarded. Wherefore he
became the original Old Nick, and the very people--us, the free people,
whom he could warn--won't listen, because we think he speaks for the
enemy!"

He braked. "Sorry. I didn't mean to orate at you."

"I wish more men had convictions," she said. "Even when I don't agree.
Everybody respects everybody else's sensibilities so much these days,
there's nothing left to talk about but football scores."

"You're very kind," he said. "Ah, here come the appetizers. Pay special
attention to the characteristically Dutch delicacy, Russian eggs, but
don't ask me how they came by that name."

       *       *       *       *       *

Later, after much talk, some of it with enough laughter to tell him she
was a merry soul in better days:

A ruby spark lay in their glasses of Cherry Heering. "This isn't Dutch
either," said Kintyre. "However."

"Do you know," she said, "I begin to understand the old idea of a wake.
Getting the clan together and having one fine brawling celebration.
It's more an act of love, really, than drawing the parlor curtains and
talking in hushed voices."

"That's the Latin who speaks," he said. "We Protestant races are cursed
with the tradition that misery is a virtue."

"But you, you Bostonian Scot or whatever you are--I hear a trace of
accent-- you  approve."

"I left Boston for the Pacific at the arthritic age of nine."

"What was the reason for that?"

"My father was a marine architect. He was laid off in, uh, 1930. Being
an imaginative man, he spent his savings on a schooner, hired a Mexican
crew, and we all lit out for the South Seas. For seven years we lived
on that schooner."

"Bruce told me you were a sailor." Her eyes were very bright upon him.
"But how did you make it pay?"

"Miscellaneously. Sometimes we carried cargo and passengers between
islands. The passengers were usually Kanakas, and those who didn't have
money would pay us in food and hospitality when we got where we were
going. Father wasn't after riches anyway. His main enterprise was to
gather and prepare marine specimens, for museums and colleges and so
on. Toward the end, he was making a name for himself. Well, we never
saw much cash money, but we never needed a lot either."

Kintyre held his glass to the light, tossed it off and followed it
with a scalding sip of coffee. Why was he speaking of this? He had
barely mentioned his youth to anyone else, except Trig, who was the
friend of a dozen years. Trig had led him into the dojo, hoping that
its discipline of mind as well as body would strangle the horror. But
Corinna had the story out of him in a matter of hours, not even knowing
what she did.

He had taken her for Morna last night.

"What happened?" she asked. Her tone said that he needn't answer unless
he wanted to.

"A typhoon and a lee shore," he said. "I was the only survivor."

He took out a cigarette. She folded her hands and waited, in case he
should want to say more.

"That was in the Gilbert Islands," he continued after the smoke was
curling down his tongue. "The British authorities shipped me home. The
guardianship was wished onto a cousin of my mother's. So I went to the
boarding school I spoke of, and summers I worked at a seaside resort.
Don't feel sorry for me, it was quite a good life."

"But a lonely one," she said.

He grinned with a single corner of his mouth. "' He travels the fastest
who travels alone. '"

"I understand a great deal now." She held her cup so lightly that he
grew aware he was in danger of breaking his. Tendon by tendon, he
eased his fingers. "Yes," she said after a moment. "Bruce was always
puzzled by you. As I imagine most people are. You don't seem to belong
anywhere, to anything or anyone. And yet you do. You belong to a world
that foundered in the ocean."

It jarred him. Not given to self-analysis, he had imagined he lived a
logical, well adapted round of days.

"Sometime you'll build it again," she said. "Oh, not the physical ship,
you've more important things on hand, but a personal world."

And again it was a blow, to be shown himself as alien as a castaway
from Mars.

"Please," he said, more roughly than he had intended. "I don't find my
personality the most interesting object on earth."

She nodded, as if to herself. The long hair swept her flat high-boned
cheeks. "Of course. You wouldn't."

"Perhaps I'd better take you home now," he said, without noticeable
enthusiasm. "Are you working tomorrow?"

"Only if I feel like it, my boss told me. I'd planned to, but--Are you
in any hurry?"

"Contrariwise."  I don't think I would sleep much. 

"Then could we go somewhere and talk? I'd like to ask you some things."

"I'd love to be asked. I know a place."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was small, dark, and masculine, undegraded by jukebox or television.
Kintyre led Corinna into a booth at the rear.

"They serve steam beer," he said. "The only really good beer made in
this country."

"Oof! I couldn't. Another Irish, if I may. I promise to go slow." Her
tone was not as light as the words.

Nonetheless, he needed a little while to sense the trouble in her.

After much time she met his eyes, obviously forcing his own. "Dr.
Kintyre," she began.

He was about to ask her to use his given name; and then he thought how
little intimacy could be achieved in this American cult of first-name
familiarity with all the universe. "Yes?" he said.

"I would--I would have thanked you for a wonderful time, which helped
me more than you know. And then I would have gone home. But--"

He waited.

"I don't know how to say it," she stumbled. "I knew you were
Bruce's--Bruce's brother, the one he should have had. But only tonight
could I  feel  it." She searched for a phrase. Finally: "I don't
believe I could hurt myself by being serious with you."

"I hope not," he said, as grave as she. "I can't promise it."

"Why did you go to the Michaelises last night?"

"I'm not quite sure."

"You want to discover who killed Bruce? Isn't that it?"

"I am not a self-appointed detective. The police can do that job
infinitely better than I. But I have been thinking."

"What do you think?" she persisted.

"I certainly wouldn't go accusing someone who--"

"Can you realize what Bruce meant to me?" She asked it quietly, as a
meaningful request for truth. "We were more than siblings. We were
friends, all our lives, in a way they haven't made words for."

"I do know," he said, and he would have told it to few other creatures
that lived. "I had a younger sister myself."

"Even after he left home--can you imagine the way he continued to watch
over me? How often he stepped in and used a word or two to straighten
out a lonesome, confused, unhappy girl whom nobody else liked; how he
steered me toward the kind of people I can feel at home with; how he
healed the breach with my parents, when I  had  to get away and they
didn't understand; how he got me out of a wretched business office and
into the museum, where I can like what I'm doing and believe it has
some value. You knew Bruce, did you know that side of him?"

"No," said Kintyre. "He wouldn't have talked about it. Still, yes, I
can imagine."

"And he was lured somewhere, and tortured, and murdered," she said. The
lacquered fingernails stood white where she caught the table edge.

Kintyre didn't touch her himself, but he held out his hand. She gripped
it for a while. Her face was lowered. When she let go and looked up
again, he saw tears.

"I'm sorry," she gulped. "I promised not to bawl, and then--"

Kintyre let her have it out. It didn't take long, nor was it noisy.

She said at last, in a wire-thin voice: "Why was it done? Who would do
it, to him of all people in the world?"

"I don't know," said Kintyre. "I just don't know."

"But you can guess, can't you? You know everyone concerned. That writer
he was having the fight with. That businessman who owns the thesis
manuscript. Gene Michaelis. You could be wrong! Even his girl, God help
me for saying it. Who?"

"Why must you know?" he asked.

"Why?" It took her aback. "To know! To understand--"

"Do you want to be reassured the murderer won't strike at you next? I
hardly think you need fear that."

"Of course not!" she flared. "I want to know so the world can make some
sense again."

"That's too metaphysical to be true," he said.

Briefly, she shivered with tension. Then, leaning back, she picked up
her whisky glass and sipped of it and asked coldly:

"Where did you go last night after you left the Michaelis place?"

"Home," he said.

"Guido was badly shaken today. He hadn't slept at all, I could see that
in the morning. He stayed around the apartment like a hurt animal. I
know him, he's terrified." Corinna spat as if at an enemy: "What did
you do to him?"

"Nothing!" said Kintyre.

Her lip caught her teeth.

"I didn't think of it till just now," she breathed. "But it all fits.
You do know something. In God's name, tell me!"

He said, with an overpowering compassion: "I see. You're afraid Guido
is involved."

"Yes," she said dully.

"Why should he be?"

"Oh--I don't know--jealousy? Who can tell? Guido always seemed like the
wild, reckless one and Bruce a mama's boy. Yet it was Bruce who left
home and Guido never has."

"Let's have no half-digested psychological theory," he said, purposely
astringent. "Stick to facts. What leads you to suspect your brother is
involved?"

"I might as well tell you," she sighed. "Last week he was dropping
all kinds of dark hints about a big job which would take him out of
town over the weekend. He's like that, has to sound important, mostly
there's no harm in it. But he came back Monday evening with a good deal
of money. I knew he was broke before. He had even been forced to sell
his car. He came in loaded with expensive presents for all of us, and
had a fat roll in his wallet. Of course, when we told him about Bruce,
that more or less made us forget it. But then today, how frightened he
was--

"What happened last night?"

Kintyre took out a cigarette. "Excuse me while I think," he said. He
made a ceremony of lighting it.

"Guido is in trouble," he admitted. "I don't know how closely related
to the murder it is."

"Don't misunderstand me." Her face could have been modeled in chalk. "I
never thought Guido would--would dream of--no! But he could have been
drawn into something. And what would the police think?"

"Uh-huh. The same notion occurred to me."

"What happened, then?"

He told her.

"Oh, no." Her eyes closed.

"You see my dilemma," he said wearily. "I'll protect Guido if
my conscience will let me, even though it's already led me into
lawbreaking. But I don't know, I can't tell--"

She opened her eyes again. They blazed.

"Thank You," she said, not to Kintyre.

His scalp crawled. "What are you thinking of?"

"I know Guido," she answered. "I can get the truth out of him."

"You can try."

She stood up. "I'll take a cab," she said.

"What?" He rose himself. "You're not going there now?"

"When else? I'm sorry, it's a shabby way to treat you, but do you think
something like this can wait?"

"A murderer is hanging around that place," he said. "You can see Guido
tomorrow at your parents', but tonight I won't have it."

She grinned. There was even a little humor in the expression. "What do
you plan to do?"

"Call the police!" he rapped.

She said like a sword: "By the time you've explained all the ins and
outs to them, I'll have taken him elsewhere. And you needn't bother
speaking to either of us again."

He took her by the wrist. "Let me go," she said, almost casually.

"Wait a second." Again he knew the night feeling, that he must go, and
that that would happen which another force than he had willed. But
somehow, crazily, this time he was glad of it.

"Just wait for me," he finished.




14


The doorkeeper-bouncer was the first obstacle. Kintyre wished he had
worn a hat. Nothing disguised him except a gray suit; the square of
bandage at his hairline felt like a searchlight.

"Follow my lead," whispered Corinna as they went down the stairs.

It was dark in the doorway, and narrow. She contrived to get herself
squeezed between Kintyre and the other man; and as she slithered by
she threw him such a look that he would have let a rhinoceros enter
unnoticed beside her.

The Alley Cat was full tonight. Mostly the cool crowd, Kintyre judged,
drawn by the rumors of last night's affair. He could not help himself,
but whispered to Corinna: "Where in the hell did you learn to put five
thousand volts of raw sex into three motions and one sidelong glance?"

"Theater." Even at this moment, when she saw through a harsh blue haze
her brother who might be a murderer singing a dirty ballad, she could
have been a female Puck. "Also, it helps to live with a cat."

They threaded their way along the wall until they found a table in
shadow. "We can see him at the intermission," he proposed. She nodded.
The waitress who lit their candle--Kintyre snuffed it again when she
had left--and brought them a demi of burgundy, paid them no special
attention. Well, it was long established that an excited eyewitness has
no value. Those who saw the fight had not really seen the fighters.

Corinna fell silent, resting her cheek on one fist. She didn't drink
at all. Kintyre tried to read the way she was looking at Guido, but
understood only a troubled tenderness.

"Mind if I join you?"

Kintyre looked up, startled, into Trygve Yamamura's flat face. "Oh,"
he said stupidly. "Sit down. Miss Lombardi, this is--" He explained in
detail.

"I'm glad to know you," she said. Her eyes added:  Maybe. It will
depend on what comes next.  Guido's guitar twanged and capered. His
voice overrode the room, as full of satyr laughter as if it had never
known anything else. "With his whack-fol-de-diddle-di-day--"

"Were we that conspicuous coming in?" whispered Kintyre.

"Lay off the stage hiss," Yamamura told him. "A low speaking voice
draws less attention. No, you pulled it off okay. It was only that I
was making it my business to see everyone who comes in. Still am." His
eyes remained in motion as he sat holding his beer; the rest of him was
nearly limp, taking its ease until a muscle should be needed.

"Been here long?" asked Kintyre.

"Couple hours, since the act went on," said Yamamura. "I tailed Guido
from his place. Before then, though, I assumed he wouldn't leave his
four safe walls, so I found plenty to do elsewhere."

Corinna exclaimed: "You learned something?"

"Uh-huh. I came right over this morning after Bob saw me. No grass
grows where I have been, I mean no grass grows under my feet." Yamamura
took a pipe from his maroon sports jacket. "The best way to get a line
on your friend Larkin seemed to be to check Guido's recent movements.
I started at the other end--his call on Clayton, a week ago last
Monday. You know, when he and Bruce went around to see about a job.
Clayton himself isn't in the City today, but I went to that swank
apartment hotel he inhabits and jollied the staff."

Having filled his pipe, he took his time lighting it. "I gather Clayton
gave Guido and Bruce a rather long interview," he went on. "Or, rather,
Bruce. Guido left about an hour before his brother did."

"He never mentioned that!" said Corinna.

"Why should he?" countered Yamamura. "Not good for his pride, is it?
But what did Bruce and Clayton find to talk about?"

"And how much of it did Guido hear?" murmured Kintyre.

Corinna flushed. "Please don't," she said in a hard voice.

"I'm sorry," he answered, torn. "But if Bruce had to tell Clayton
something important, even worth killing about--they'd shoo Guido out
first. But Guido might have gotten enough hints to make some deductions
and--No, wait, let me finish! Maybe Guido blabbed to someone else, not
realizing himself what it signified."

She gave him a shaky little smile. "Thanks for trying," she said.

"Ah, this is probably of no significance at all," said Yamamura. "Bruce
could just as well have been giving Clayton the latest information
about the mildew on page 77 of that book." He attempted a smoke ring
and failed. "Or could he? Depends on how you interpret this tidbit:
Clayton telephoned Genoa, Italy, that same night."

"Who did he call?" asked Kintyre.

"The switchboard girl doesn't remember. All she heard was a lot of
Italian: they started gabbling right away, before she could take
herself out of the circuit. Clayton stayed home for several hours
next day. The Italian called again. Now none of this would be worth
retailing, I guess, except for one more oddity about Mr. Clayton. He
had the bellhop bring him several dollars in change. Then he went out
and was gone for some hours."

Corinna raised her thick dark brows in puzzlement. Kintyre nodded.
"Yes. Long-distance, though not transatlantic, calls from a public
booth," he said. "No chance of being eavesdropped on."

"It may not mean a damn relevant thing," said Yamamura. "The most
legitimate businesses have their secrets. But I'll admit to being
curious. Did Bruce steer him onto something big? And did a business
rival then strike at Bruce? That doesn't sound likely. Maybe Clayton
himself--no, hardly that. In my line of work I'd have heard it if he
weren't straight, or if he associated with thugs."

Kintyre jammed his fists into knots. An intake of air hissed between
his teeth.

"What is it?" Corinna's alarm seemed to come from far away.

"Nothing. Or possibly something. Never mind. Go on, Trig."

Only part of him heard the detective continue. The rest said through
thunder:  One more suspect. I had been sure Clayton, of all people,
must be innocent. For the Federal government would have assured
itself he knows no assassins--Trig, perhaps more reliably, tells me
the same--and he could not have found any on short notice, and it is
impossible he could have done the crime personally. 

 But Guido might have such connections! 

 Did Clayton see Guido again? 

"Then I went around and chivvied the cops," said Yamamura. "They were
just hauling in the Michaelis family, and hadn't much time for any
other ideas. However, they are going to check house rentals over the
weekend. You see, what was done--I'm sorry, Miss Lombardi--the deed
would require an isolated spot. An entire house, at least. For the
noise."

"Has anything come of that?" asked Corinna with a great steadiness.

"Not yet. These things take time. Well, then I had some supper and came
here. Wasn't open yet, but they were making ready. Someone will have to
meet my expense account, twenty-five good dollars to grease my way in
and learn something."

"I can," said Corinna.

"Not you, Miss Lombardi. Most especially not you." Yamamura fumbled
with his pipe; he was all at once an unhappy man. "Must I say it?"

Her eyes closed again, a flicker of aloneness. Then: "Please. It's
better now, isn't it, than later from someone else?"

"A couple of strangers were in here last Thursday night. They
introduced themselves to Guido, stood him drinks, talked at length. All
this was noticed by the bartender, without any special interest, simply
because it was a slack midweek night. He didn't hear what was said.
After closing time, Guido went out with them.

"The description of one of those birds answers moderately well to Bob's
description of Larkin."

Corinna shook herself, as if something rode her neck. "Is that all?"
she asked.

"Yes."

"It could be worse," she said. "We already know he knows Larkin."

"What did the other man look like?" asked Kintyre.

"Smallish fellow, sandy-haired, long nose. And I'm surprised the
barkeep could tell me that much. Look how you've come right back in
here tonight, a stranger, after tearing the joint up."

Guido finished. Applause crackled, abnormally loud for a place like
this: did they clap the knife which had been drawn? wondered Kintyre.

Corinna got up and made her way toward the platform. Guido gaped at
her. "I like that girl," said Yamamura. "Do we have to go on with this
business?"

"If we don't, she will alone," Kintyre told him.

Corinna and Guido held a muted argument. The fear was bulging his eyes.
Finally he collapsed, somehow, and went out through the rear door.
Corinna followed.

"Here we go," said Yamamura. "No, you ape, don't blow your nose! Oldest
trick in the book, and you can bet there's at least one plainclothesman
here tonight."

He sauntered affably between the tables. Kintyre came behind, his
shoulders aching with tension. The bartender, the man who could
actually notice things, regarded him speculatively as he passed by. A
small surf of conversation lapped at his feet, he had to choke down the
idiotic belief that it was all about him.

Then they were in the back room. Kintyre recognized the alley door he
had used previously. Almost hidden by stacked beer cases, a stair led
upward. At its top they found a dusty room with an iron cot, a couple
of chairs, and an old vanity table. A naked electric bulb glared from
the ceiling. Dressing room, Kintyre supposed.

Guido sat on the bedstead. He held a cigarette to his lips and drew
on it as if it kept him alive. Corinna stood before him. The overhead
light made her hair into a helmet and her face into a mask. Shadows lay
huge in the corners.

Guido didn't look up. "I'll see you later," he mumbled. "I swear it.
But not here. For Chrissake, we can all be killed here."

"Then why did you come tonight?" asked Yamamura.

"God! I was afraid not to."

"Did you see anyone dangerous in the audience?"

"I can't tell." His forehead glistened under the tangled hair. "There's
a baby spot on me when I sing. I can't see past the first couple
tables."

Corinna said: "Mr. Yamamura is a private detective. I understand he's
even better at judo than Dr. Kintyre, which you should know is saying
quite a lot."

"And when they go home?" He lifted a skull face. "What happens to me
then?"

Yamamura replied: "Your only real safety will come when those people
you are afraid of have been settled with. Do you want to go the rest of
your life being afraid?"

"You can't settle with them," whispered Guido. "I mean, it's not
just Larkin with his switchblades. O'Hearn carries a gun, and he's a
three-time loser already, do you understand what that means? I've seen
his gun!"

"Is there anyone else?" asked Kintyre.

"I don't know. You expect me to tell you if I do? I'll get myself
killed!"

Corinna waved Kintyre and Yamamura back. She sat down beside Guido and
took his free hand. "Bruce got himself killed too," she said in her
gentlest tone.

"Oh, yes, yes, yes! Leave me alone!"

"He was tied down somewhere and tortured," she said, not raising her
voice. "They burned him. The marks were all over his body, even after
they finished hacking it up. I know that much, no more. Nobody would
tell me more, and I didn't want to ask. But he must have been glad when
they finally cut his throat."

Guido tried to rise. She pulled him back, without using much strength.
"Jesus!" he screamed.

"Why did you help them?" she asked.

"I didn't! It's got nothing to do with--I  didn't !"

She stood up again and looked down upon him. "Why did you do it?" she
said as calmly. "How had he hurt you, that you had to let him be burned
and twisted and killed?"

"No! Not me! I don't know!" His mouth was stretched into a gash; a
tongue like dry wood bobbed within it.

She slapped him. It could not have been hard, but he fell back onto the
bed and clawed at the mattress.

"Good-by," she said, and walked from him.

Kintyre looked at her and knew why the Furies had been women. His heart
was a cold lump.

Corinna waited in a corner, her hands writhing together. Guido tried,
horribly, to weep, and could not.

Then at last he rolled over on his back, blinked at the light, and said
in a high childish voice: "I'll tell you what happened. I'll tell you
so you can see it wasn't me, wasn't anything to do with Bruce, it just
happened to happen the same weekend, and then maybe if you get out and
leave me alone they won't kill me.

"All I did was this. These cats from Chicago came around last week and
said they were after some of the pod and could I get it, it was worth
five hundred bucks to them plus expenses. Not horse, now, I don't have
anything to do with horse. Just marijuana, it never hurt anybody, you
don't get hooked, you don't go nuts, hell, I mean you even have to will
yourself to keep the jag up and it's only in your head, man, you don't
do nothing to nobody else, dig?"

"Guido," said Corinna warningly.

He snapped after air. Presently he continued: "So I told them I didn't
handle it myself but I knew some who did. But they didn't dig that,
said they didn't want nothing to do with any local pushers, they
didn't even want it from any near town. Well, it seemed way out to
me, but five hundred plus expenses for finding a small packet wasn't
to be turned down, so I asked around and got the name of a dealer in
Tijuana, and when I saw them the next day they said that would do. So
I rented a car and drove down Saturday. I was supposed to meet Larkin
here again Monday night and give him the packet and get the rest of my
money--they paid two-fifty in advance. I came back to town late Monday.
When I hit my pad I heard about Bruce and the old lady was crying all
over me, so I called the place here and talked with Larkin, could he
meet me Tuesday night instead. So he said all right, only the professor
was here when he arrived. I haven't seen Larkin or O'Hearn since, and
what're they thinking I said?"

Kintyre didn't look at Corinna, he didn't believe it would be decent
for a minute or two. He asked Guido: "What other jobs did you do for
these men? Rent a house for them?"

"No--nothing. I turned the car back to the rental agency on Monday,
that's all. They'd advanced some of my expenses. They still owe me--"

"You're not likely to collect," said Yamamura. He nodded to Kintyre. "I
see what you're driving at. They missed a bet, not having him rent the
scene of the crime too. And of course it was a mistake to dump the body
across the Bay: that expedited the investigation, rather than slowing
it up as intended. But then, they were strangers to this locality. And
there's not much long-range difference, is there?"

"What do you mean?" asked Guido lifelessly.

"I mean you've been played for an all-time sucker," said Kintyre.
"It's pure luck--the Michaelises just happened to become Patsy Number
One--that you haven't been arrested on suspicion of murder. So far."

He heard Corinna gasp. Guido seemed too drained to understand.

"Another thing," said Kintyre. "What's between you and Gerald Clayton?"

"Clayton?" The empty eyes blinked from the bed. "Clayton. Oh, him.
Nothing."

"Are you certain?"

"We talked for a while, up at his pad. Bruce took me there. So finally
he gave me the polite brush-off and I came on over here to do my show.
Bruce stayed."

"That's all? You're sure?"

"For a long time, anyway. I met him once before--months and months
ago--just social like--" Guido's tones dribbled to silence.

Kintyre rubbed his chin. "That seems to let Clayton off," he said. "If,
to be sure, our friend here is telling the truth."

"He is," said Corinna. Turning, Kintyre saw her inhumanly composed. "I
know him. He can't be lying now."

"I wish I could be that certain," said Kintyre. "The whole thing makes
so little sense that--Though Judas, I feel I could almost grasp the
answer, but no."

Yamamura asked Guido: "Where is this dope you brought?"

"It's not dope," said the figure on the cot: a tired, automatic
protest. "It's only pod."

"Never mind that. If you don't like the law, write your Congressman.
Where's the dope?"

"They'll kill me if--"

"What use is your life to you right now?" asked Yamamura scornfully.

It had not seemed possible Guido could shrink further into himself.
"That dressing table over there," he whimpered.

Yamamura opened the drawer, flipped out a small parcel, and tore a
corner. "Uh-huh," he said.

"Well?" said Kintyre.

"Well, by rights we should turn this and the kid in. It could mean a
stretch in a Federal prison, since he crossed a border. It could even
mean a loss of citizenship, he being naturalized. Dope is a hysterical
issue."

Corinna did not speak.

Yamamura continued, in an almost idle tone: "However, it's true enough
that this isn't a really vicious drug. I could heave it into the
nearest garbage can and there'd be an end of the matter. If you think
he's had a little sense beaten into him."

Kintyre said: "That's my guess, Trig." Yamamura slipped the package
into a coat pocket. Corinna shuddered, her fingers closed about
Kintyre's.

Yamamura knocked the dottle from his pipe, which had gone cold between
his teeth, and said, "Let's assume for now that he is telling the
truth. Then what have we got?"

"A couple of murderers still hanging around," said Kintyre. "Why?
Surely not to collect their hashish. That was just a gimmick to make
Guido, their decoy, leave town, and make it damn near impossible for
him to explain why. Whether or not a murder charge could have been made
to stick, it would certainly confuse the issue long enough for this job
to be finished, for the killers to go safely home again, and for the
one who hired them to cover his tracks completely."

"You imply their job is not yet finished," said Yamamura.

"I sure do. There's no other sane reason for them to stay around,
risking detection and arrest. Only--who's next?"

"Guido?" It was Corinna who asked it, firmly.

"I doubt that, at least as far as the original plan went. Who wants a
dead red herring? Of course, now they may indeed go for him, afraid of
what he has spilled. I think we'd better take him across the bay."

Yamamura nodded. "Let's get moving," he said. "Up there, lad." He
stepped to the cot, took Guido under the arms and hauled him erect. "We
can go out the back door."

Guido shambled, leaning heavily on the detective. Kintyre and Corinna
followed. "He must be telling the truth," she said. "I know him! And
that package--"

"Does tend to bear out his yarn," said Kintyre. "I want to believe in
his essential innocence myself. The trouble is, if his story is true,
then who hired the killers?"

"That Mr. Clayton?"

"Not if Guido has given us a full and fair account. I've explained to
you that the Michaelises are out. Who's left?"

"I've heard of a writer. Owens, is that his name?"

"I don't know. I plain don't. And yet I'm nagged by a feeling that
I already have the answer--and I can't name it! Things have been
happening too fast." Kintyre scowled. "And until we can identify the
one who hired the killers--the real murderer; the others are only a
deodand--he's free to murder someone else."

They had come down the stairs now, slowly, and stepped into the alley
behind the building. Windowless brick walls closed three sides: it was
a cul-de-sac thick with shadows, opening on a wanly lit trafficless
street of hooded shops.

The man by the alley entrance stepped a little closer. There was
just light enough to show that he was not tall, that he had sloping
shoulders, and that he carried an automatic pistol. He stopped three
yards from the door, too far off for a leap.

"Hold it," he said.




15


Yamamura and Guido had come out first. Guido's legs seemed to go fluid;
only the arm around his waist held him up.

"Jimmy," he bleated.

Kintyre's hand swung backward in an arc, shoving Corinna behind him. He
said aloud--very loudly, "What the devil do you want?"

"Quiet, there," said the man called Jimmy. "This thing has a silencer
on it." He waved the gun. "I want to see Lombardi."

"It isn't nothing, Jimmy," chattered Guido. "Before God, Jimmy, they're
just friends of mine!"

"Yeh. You can tell us all about it. The rest of you stand back against
the door. Come on, Guido. I got a car waiting."

Yamamura eased his burden to the ground. Guido huddled on hands and
knees, retching. "He'll never make it," said the detective. "He's
scared spitless."

"I just want to talk with him," said Jimmy. "I was supposed to see him
here tonight, only they said he'd gone upstairs. I figured if it was
just for a nap or something, he'd be down again to finish his act and
I'd catch him later. Only if he wanted to skip out this way instead, it
would be soon and he might not come back. I didn't want to miss him, so
I figured I'd wait here a while."

It was not meant as an explanation. It was an indictment, nailed word
by word on the man who tried to stand up.

"Well," said Yamamura, "let me help him."

Jimmy laughed under his hat. "I'm not that simple-minded. Stay put."
With shrillness: "Come on, Guido. Or do you want to get drilled right
here and now?"

Guido began to drag himself forward, as if a bullet had already smashed
his spine. The sound of it, and of his breath going in and out an open
mouth, and the nearby clamor of automobiles filled with meek taxpayers,
was all that Kintyre could hear.

He wondered if he could let Guido be taken from him, by the same
instrument which had taken Bruce, and call himself male. Two or three
jumps should reach Jimmy. But Jimmy was no amateur, he wouldn't miss
if he shot. But there were many cases on record of men being hit once,
twice, being filled with lead, and still coming on. But Guido wasn't
worth anybody's time. But Guido was brother to Bruce and Corinna,
therefore worth a great deal of time. But a possible forty years?

But a deeper shadow filled the open end of the brick gut. It ran
forward in total silence, light touched its glassy uplifted club and
its flowing hair.

As the bottle came down on Jimmy's head, Kintyre started to move.
Yamamura beat him to it, arriving a second after Jimmy lurched forward
from the impact on his skull. The sound had been a shattering; Kintyre
heard the tinkles that followed the blow. Yamamura knocked the gun from
Jimmy's hand with an edge-on palm, seized his lapel, and applied a
scissor strangle.

Jimmy fell, as if the bones had been sucked from him. Corinna swayed
over his form, still holding the broken beer bottle. Almost, she fell
too. Kintyre caught her.

She held him closely, shuddering. It was not necessary, he thought
beneath his own pulse. She fought herself, and grew worn down thereby.
Her physical output had been negligible. Clearly she had slipped back
through the door, unobserved (that was the chance she took, but chance
had a way of favoring those who acted boldly). Picking up an empty
bottle on the way, tucking it inconspicuously under an arm, she had
gone out past the bar, out the main door (doubtless noticed, maybe
wondered about, but not stopped and soon forgotten) and around the
building. Then she took off her shoes and ran up behind Jimmy and hit
him.

That was all. There was no reason to grow exhausted. But God damn all
smug judokas, hadn't she earned the right?

"You clopped him a good one," said Yamamura, squatting to look.
"It's as well he had a hat on. A cut scalp could get very messy.
Congratulations."

"Did you say there was a cop in the bar?" asked Kintyre.

"Beyond doubt," said Yamamura. "Or we can phone, of course. Only I'm
carrying a parcel of smoke, and the neighborhood will be searched quite
thoroughly if our friend here mentions it." He sat on his heels, chin
in hand, for what seemed like a long time. Jimmy moaned, but did not
stir.

"Bob," asked Yamamura finally, "do you know anyone living on this side
who's mixed up in the affair?"

"Just Guido, if we rule out the Michaelises."

"So the big chief--and his next victim--are probably in the Eastbay.
If another murder is to be forestalled, I wonder if we ought to spend
time here chatting with a lot of well intentioned policemen who will
first have to be convinced the Michaelises are innocent and this wasn't
a simple stick-up. Especially when the papers will tell the big chief
exactly what's happened. Or, even if they can be made to keep quiet,
Jimmy will fail to report in; the gang will try to check for him in the
San Francisco pokey, first of all; so we could do some trail-covering
of our own."

"You mean to take this character to Berkeley, then? Isn't that pretty
irregular? You don't want to jeopardize your license."

"It's as irregular as a German verb, and the police are going to be
annoyed. But I do think we can flange up enough excuses to get by
with it. Of course, the Berkeley force will call up the San Francisco
force immediately, but that'll go on a higher level, chief to chief I
imagine; we can explain the need for secrecy, as much secrecy as the
law allows, and--Hell, Bob, let's stop mincing words. What we need is
time to construct a story that'll cover Guido. And you."

Kintyre felt how the stone-rigid body he held began to come alive
again. "Blessings," he murmured.

"We'll go to your place first, and then decide what's next."

"Can you finagle Jimmy across the bridge?"

"Him and Guido both," grinned Yamamura. "Which will leave you a clear
field when you take the lady home."

"I'm coming," said Corinna. She pulled herself away from Kintyre,
gently.

"You are not," he answered. Seeing in the dirty gray half-light how
her face grew mutinous, he went on: "There are enough complications
already. What could you do over there, except be one more element we
have to explain away--or one more target for the gang? At present, only
Jimmy knows you have any concern with this business, and he'll get no
chance to talk of it."

She thought on his words for a little. Then: "Yes. You're right. But
don't drive me all the way. A taxi will--"

"Shut up!" he laughed, shakily, and took her arm.

They had to wait, guarding a half-conscious prisoner, while Yamamura
went after his car. Guido sat on the pavement, knees drawn up under his
chin. After a while he took out a cigarette and lit it.

Corinna leaned over him. "Go with them," she said. "They're the only
real friends you've got."

"Besides you, sis," he muttered. Then, barking a sort of laugh: "Next
week, East Lynne."

She sighed, like an old woman, and stood back again.

Yamamura returned and bound Jimmy's wrists with Jimmy's tie. He and
Kintyre frogmarched their captive to the Volkswagen and put him in back
on the floor. Yamamura secured his ankles with his belt. "Toss me your
house key, Bob, I'll see you there. Hop in, Guido. Cheerio."

Kintyre and Corinna walked hand in hand back toward his own car. They
stopped to pick up her shoes. "I'm afraid you ruined your stockings,"
he said inanely.

"You don't have to talk," she said. "I don't need it."

He was grateful for that. The silence in which they drove home (she did
not lean against him, but she sat close by) was somehow like--memory
groped--like Bruce's music which Margery had played for him a few
centuries ago. He wondered if she had heard it yet.

"I hope you'll be able to sleep," he said at her door.

"Oh, yes, I think so." She considered him and asked gravely: "Why are
you doing this for us?"

"I can't stop now," he said. "I'm in up to the eyebrows."

"But why did you begin? Not for Bruce's sake, surely. He wouldn't have
cared about being avenged."

"Which is what the police are for, anyway. I don't like this evading
them that we've been forced into."

"Well?" she continued.

"Why do you want to know?" he dodged.

Her head drooped. "I suppose it isn't any of my business. I'm sorry."

It hammered within him to tell her: that he had been escaping a demon,
that she had worn its shape for a single moment, and that now he wanted
to give peace to her. But there had been too many locks in him, for too
many years.

He took her hand. "Later," he said, wondering if he meant it. "This is
no time for a long, involved story."

"I'll stay home tomorrow," she said. "Will you call me as soon
as--anything happens? The first minute you're able to?"

"Of course."

She smiled then, reached up and ran her palm along his cheek.
"Arrivederci," she said. The door closed behind her.

It was so much more than he had awaited, that he never remembered going
down the stairs. He was driving over the bridge before the complete
bleakness of his purpose returned.

The hour was not yet midnight, but Berkeley was quiet. Kintyre parked
behind Yamamura's Volks and walked around the empty house to his
cottage. The detective let him in.

"Where are our friends?" asked Kintyre.

"Guido is in your bed, snoring," said Yamamura. "As clear a case of
nervous exhaustion as I ever saw. By the way, Jimmy's name is O'Hearn;
I went through his billfold. I borrowed some of that rope you've been
making grommets with and stashed him in the john."

He had stripped off his jacket, to show a noisy aloha shirt; his pipe
strove to be Vesuvius. "Are you very tired?" he asked.

"No. Keyed up, in fact."

"Have a drink. Apropos vices, the evidence against Guido is in the Bay.
I assumed we're not going to hand him over to the law."

"Not for one bit of foolishness," said Kintyre. "I doubt if he'll ever
touch dope running again. He's gotten a hefty scare."

"Jimmy will tattle, though."

"Our word against his. We're somewhat more respectable."

"You and Machiavelli! But, yeh. A check with the Chicago police--he's
from there, all right--would doubtless show he's got a record as
long as King Kong's arm. A pro killer doesn't come out of nowhere;
he starts with petty stuff and works his way up." Yamamura shook his
head. "And on the other hand, a lot of good men are doing time for one
slip regretted the moment it was over. Makes me wonder about our whole
concept of penology. That's why I'll help you cover for Guido."

Kintyre took down his bottle of Scotch and raised brows at Yamamura.
The detective shook his head. Kintyre poured for himself and sat down.
The other man prowled.

"We haven't much time," said Yamamura. "What do we tell the cops?"

"Perhaps nothing--yet," said Kintyre slowly.

"Huh? How do you mean?"

"They don't use the third degree around here. O'Hearn isn't going to
tell them a thing, and you know it. They'll have to check with Chicago,
the FBI, follow a dozen separate leads for days at least. And what do
his pals do meanwhile?"

Yamamura stopped in midstride. "If you have any half-cooked scheme of
beating the truth out of him, forget it," he said in a chill voice.

"Oh, no," said Kintyre. "But do you think we could get away with
holding him, unharmed, for maybe twenty-four hours?"

"It would be kidnaping."

"What was he trying to do to Guido?"

Yamamura stared at the sabers on the wall. "What do you want to do?"

"Get his information out of him in less time than the police will need."

"I think an excuse could be manufactured," said Yamamura dreamily. "If
not for a whole twenty-four hours, for twelve or so. This reminds me of
my days in OSS. Okay, I'll risk it."

"Good," said Kintyre. "Then follow my lead."

"Better explain--"

Kintyre was already in the bathroom, looking down at the man on the
floor. O'Hearn had a long nose and not much chin. "Who hired you,
Jimmy?" said Kintyre.

Hatred glared back at him. "Tough, aren't you?" said O'Hearn. "Big
deal."

"I asked who hired you," said Kintyre.

He saw the growth of fear. "Look, I don't know," said O'Hearn. "And if
I spilled anything, anything at all, they'd find out."

"And kill you. I've heard that line before." Kintyre shrugged. "You are
going to tell me. Think about it while I make ready."

He took Yamamura out into the yard, toward the house. "My landlord
left some extra keys with me, just in case," he said. "We'll borrow a
soundproof room."

"Hey!" Yamamura stopped. "I told you, bodily harm is out."

"I've no such intention." Kintyre led him into the house and down to
its basement. "We'll use the rumpus room. It has a pool table we can
tie him to. The process seems to work best when the victim lies supine.
I admit he might get a little stiff from the hard surface."

Yamamura grabbed his shoulder. "What the blue hell are you talking
about?" he growled.

"They're just now beginning to study the mental effects of eliminating
sensory stimuli," said Kintyre. "The mind goes out of whack amazingly
fast. My friend Levinson, in the physiology department, was telling me
about some recent experiments. Volunteers, intelligent self-controlled
people who knew what it's all about and knew they could quit any time
they wanted--none of which applies to O'Hearn--didn't last long.
Hallucinations set in. Of course, we may have to mop up certain messes
afterward."

"Do I understand you rightly?"

"I suppose so. The only thing we're going to do to O'Hearn is tie him
down, flat on his back, blindfolded."

       *       *       *       *       *

They would have to stand watch and watch outside the door. Kintyre
took the first one, though he didn't expect a reaction soon. (On the
other hand, an hour can stretch most hideously when you are alone
in soundless dark, not even able to move.) He pulled up a chair and
opened a book, but didn't read it. Nor did he listen to the defiant
obscenities which came very faintly through the panels. Mostly he sat
in a wordless half sleep.

 Corinna , he thought. And then, later:  I'm being infantile. It
doesn't mean a thing, except that I've been celibate too long
and by sheer chance she pushes a few buttons in me. It could not
last--consider the difference in faith alone--and she would be hurt. 

 How do I know it wouldn't, even to the altar? (For surely it would
last always, having taken us that far.) 

 I don't know. I suppose I'm being cowardly in not finding out. 

Then again, long afterward:  This couldn't be hurried in any event.
We'd both go slowly, her loss is still so new. There'd be ample
time for me to escape, before the pleasure of her presence became a
necessity. 

And once more:  But why should I want to escape at all? 

The first thin gray was stealing over the hills when Yamamura yawned
his way in. O'Hearn hadn't cried out for some time; he lay breathing
hard. "Solved the case yet?" asked Yamamura. "No? Well, run along and
let a professional handle it."

Kintyre went across the yard. A bird twittered somewhere, drowsily. He
entered the cottage and looked at Guido. Still out. The face was gone
innocent with sleep, years had been lost, a della Robbia angel lay in
his bed. He sighed, kicked off his shoes, and stretched on the living
room couch. Darkness was quickly upon him.




16


Once the phone rang. He rolled over, refusing its summons, and went to
sleep again. It was a little after six when a hand shook him awake. He
struggled up through many gray layers. From far off he heard: "Jimmy's
broken. Busted into pieces all over the place. Hoo, what a devil you
are, my friend!"

Kintyre sat up, feeling sticky. Yamamura gave him a lighted cigarette
and he took a few puffs. "Okay," he said.

The early sunlight and the rushing sound of early traffic whetted him
as he left the cottage, until he went clear-brained to the shivering,
screaming thing on the pool table and said: "I'll take the blindfold
off when you've talked. Not before."

"Let me go, let me go, let me see!" wept O'Hearn.

"Shut up or I'll leave you for another day or two," said Kintyre.

O'Hearn gasped himself toward a kind of silence.

"Did you help kill Bruce Lombardi?" asked Kintyre.

"No." A cracked whine. "I mean, I was there. But the others, Silenio,
Larkin, they done it. I didn't touch him myself. Let me out of here!"

"Shut up, I told you." Kintyre drew deeply on his cigarette. "I suspect
you're lying about your own role," he continued, "but never mind that
now, if you don't lie on the next question. Who hired you?"

"I don't know!"

"So long," said Kintyre.

"I don't know! I don't! They never told me! Silenio knows! I don't! I
just worked for Joe Silenio! Ask him!"

Yamamura, looking a little sick, said: "That's probably true, Bob.
Our kingpin called this Silenio in Chicago, and Silenio rounded up a
couple of assistants. The less they know, the better. Silenio gets the
kingpin's money and pays off the other two himself."

Kintyre groaned. "And we had to catch one of the deadheads! Well, let's
see what else can be learned."

It came out in harsh automatic sentences. O'Hearn's will, never strong,
had altogether failed him. He answered questions without evasions, but
like a robot.

Silenio had contacted him and Larkin the Tuesday of last week. It
was to be a well paid job, ten thousand dollars on completion of the
first assignment and a hundred dollars a day while they waited for
the next. ("No, I didn't know nothing, I don't know who else we'd
go after!") The trio caught a plane to San Francisco that night. At
intervals on Wednesday and Thursday Silenio had conferred with whoever
engaged them, while Larkin and O'Hearn looked for a suitable house.
Their find was rented on Friday, an old house in a run-down district
at the southern end of town; and each of them bought a good used car
elsewhere. Meanwhile, on Thursday night, Larkin and O'Hearn had lined
up Guido. That had been at Silenio's orders, presumably derived from
the boss's. The boss himself had arranged for Bruce to come to the
house on Saturday, calling him on the phone with some plausible story.
They captured Bruce very simply, with a gun, and tied him up. Silenio
questioned him. Bruce had gotten stubborn with outrage--Kintyre knew
how stubborn that could be--and the interrogation took a few hours;
even after he broke they continued the pain a while, to make sure.
Finally they cut his throat over the bathtub, dressed him in old
clothes, and got rid of the body across the Bay on Sunday night.

"The questions, you bastard," snarled Kintyre. "Didn't the questions
Silenio was asking tell you something?"

"It was all in wop," groaned O'Hearn. "I don't know wop."

 Italy again. Though I suppose that our X would have made a special
effort to get an Italian-speaking lieutenant, as another safeguard for
himself. 

"One thing so far," murmured Yamamura. "Guido is in the clear."

"Is he?" said Kintyre bitterly. "Wouldn't it be a beautiful turnabout,
to make himself look like the fall guy for his own scheme?"

He turned back to the crooked blind face on the table. "What did you do
afterward?"

"Waited in the house. Played cards. Silenio got the money for this job
in the afternoon. Cash. He went out for it. Larkin went to pay off
the Lombardi sucker Tuesday evening. That was because he didn't show
Monday, account of his brother. Larkin got into a fight. We didn't know
what it meant. Silenio called the boss and they talked on the phone in
wop. Silenio told me to go pick up Guido Lombardi tonight. I figured we
was going to find out how much he knew and then maybe dump him too, but
I don't know for sure."

"Did anything else go on, this night?"

"Silenio and Larkin had another job."

"Where?"

"I don't know." The voice had become a worn rattling.

"Were you supposed to meet them at the house?"

"I was supposed to wait there with Lombardi till they got back. Silenio
wasn't telling either of us more'n he had to."

"Will they be back there now?"

"I dunno."

"Suppose they came back and didn't find you? What would they do?"

"Try and find out what happened, I guess. Wouldn't stay in the house if
it looked like something had gone wrong."

"Where would they go?"

"I don't know. Some hotel, I guess."

"And what would you do, if you couldn't find them?"

"Go back to Chi, I guess."

"No spare rendezvous," said Yamamura. "Lousy doctrine."

"Not if you're using expendables," said Kintyre. "And this bum is
expendable. I imagine Larkin is too, though enough more valuable to go
with Silenio--where?"

"Over here," said Yamamura.

"Very likely to kill someone else." Kintyre looked dully at the stub of
his cigarette on the floor. He didn't remember dropping it. "We'll read
in the papers who it was."

"If we aren't the target ourselves," said Yamamura. "Right now anything
seems possible." He sighed. "Well, I'd better call the police."

"Wait a bit," said Kintyre.

"But that house--God knows what's going on there, right now!"

"Nothing, I'm sure. If only because Silenio and Larkin will be worried
by O'Hearn's absence. Let's have breakfast, at least, before calling.
You devise a story that won't make us quite such lawbreakers. I'm
going to try and sort out my thoughts. I have an idea. It's driving me
crackers, Trig. I feel I know what this is all about and still there's
some kind of wall between me and the knowledge. A wall I've built
myself!"

"Hm," said Yamamura. He gave the other man a meditative stare. "Yes, it
might be worth while waiting till after we eat."

Kintyre went out, beating a fist softly into his palm. Yamamura paused
to release O'Hearn's eyes. O'Hearn lay and wept.

While the detective made breakfast in the cottage, Kintyre took a
shower. Then a shave, clean clothes, tee shirt, khaki pants, tennis
shoes, brought him physically closer to humanness.

Inside, he was afraid, and he did not know why.

Guido appeared in the kitchen as Kintyre re-entered. He looked at the
others with deer shyness. "Good morning," he ventured.

"Hello," said Yamamura. "Pull up an egg and sit down."

Guido perched on a chair's edge. No one spoke until coffee and food
were within them. Somehow, the blue and green planet beyond the windows
had become alien; they sat in a private darkness.

"I--" began Guido. He stopped.

"Go ahead," said Yamamura. Kintyre listened with a fractional ear.
Mostly he was inside his own skull, shouting for something which did
not answer.

"I'd like to say thanks, is all," offered Guido.

"It's okay," said Yamamura.

"Look, are you sitting and worrying about me?"

"In a way. The trouble is, you see, if we take your story at face
value, we have no plausible suspects left. But two more killers and
their chief are loose, probably arranging another murder. If it hasn't
already been done."

"Whose?" whispered Guido.

"If we knew that," said Yamamura gloomily, "we could get a police
guard for him. But until we've identified the chief, there's no way of
figuring who the next victim might be."

"No," said Kintyre.

He sat up straight, feeling how cold his hands were. It came to him,
through a great hollowness--each instant he seemed more remote from
himself--that he could have found his enemy before now. He had enough
facts to reason on. He was still feeling his way a step at a time, but
he felt there would be an end to his journey.

And he felt, without yet knowing why, that the horror waited for him
there.

He said, sensing a resonance within his head, as if his voice formed
echoes:

"It has to be someone who knew Bruce at least fairly well. He went
to that house because of a telephone call. He didn't own a car and
wouldn't borrow Margery's. That's a long awkward trip, by street
train and bus. He wouldn't make it casually. He'd want to know why he
was being asked to come to this address he'd never heard of before,
 without telling anyone . The person who called (and could have been
right in Berkeley, of course) had to be somebody who could give Bruce a
strong, convincing reason. What it was, I don't know. It doesn't matter
now, it was surely a lie. But a lie he would accept! From a person he
trusted."

He stopped. Guido said with a certain boy-eagerness: "Who knew him
best? His girl friend!"

Kintyre shook his head, violently, uncertain why the idea should smite
him so.

"Nope," said Yamamura. "Too much lets her out; hell, the simple fact
that she doesn't speak Italian. That she hasn't the money, or the
connections, or anything."

"I haven't the money either," said Guido defensively.

"For all I know, you could have ten million dollars hoarded," said
Yamamura.

The anger in Guido's face reminded Kintyre of Corinna. He snatched for
the memory, it warmed him a minute and was torn away again. He shivered.

"Guido's story has to be accepted, I think," he said. There was
no color in his words, but they came fast. "All the psychological
quirks he's shown. He bopped me with a stool to let Larkin get away,
because he was deathly afraid. But he cried at having hurt me, even
so trivially. Also: could that parcel of marijuana have been in the
drawer by sheer coincidence? And even if he planned some complicated
misdirection that made him his own fall guy, it would not have involved
something as serious as dope. He could have gone to jail for that, or
been deported. And why? What reason? Insane jealousy won't fit such an
elaborate procedure. It would have to be money. And where would he,
drifting between minor night club engagements, sponging off his parents
when he isn't shacked up with some tart, where would he find time for a
million-dollar enterprise?"

Guido reddened. "Hey!" he protested.

"You had that coming," said Yamamura. He turned his back on Guido,
who slumped, pouting. "It doesn't look as if X really believed an
accessory-to-murder rap could be hung on the boy," he remarked. "Not
when you demolish it so fast."

"Perhaps not." Kintyre struggled for clarity within himself. "But Guido
would have wriggled and evaded much more if the police had questioned
him, dug in his heels at every step, for fear of the dope charge. When
he finally realized the situation and confessed, if he did at all, it
would have been too late. He would have served X's purpose of holding
up the police for days.

"And the fact that he fell so neatly into the slot clinches the proof
that X knows the Lombardi family well."

"You've ruled out Michaelis & Son," said Yamamura. "That's confirmed
by the gangsters still operating with them in clink. Who's left, the
writer?"

Kintyre said: "He blew into town less than two weeks ago, having never
met Bruce in his life before. Their time together was a few meetings
devoted to professional arguments. How could he know Guido? And his
only motive would have been to eliminate Bruce. Simple murder would
have sufficed, not calling in three expensive sadists to do a job of
kidnaping and interrogation. Also, I proved to myself, without meaning
to, that he's a physical coward. I doubt if he could have asked someone
like Larkin the time of day. Or run the risk of detection. No, there
was just one way Owens helped the killers, and that was unintentional."

"How?" asked Yamamura.

Kintyre looked at his hands. They were clasped together, as if to
hold the safe nonmurderer, Jabez Owens, tightly to him. But the wind
streamed and the sea ramped beneath it, Owens was whirled from his
fingers and drowned with all the rest, all the rest. He said from the
noise of great waters:

"Owens was after the Book of Witches, yes. First he tried bribery.
Then, the minute he heard Bruce was dead, he went over to the history
building, I suppose trying to get up nerve to go in and see if the
volume was there. He saw me instead, and urged me to take Margery out
that night; he did know, like everyone else, that she'd been living
with Bruce. He burgled the apartment. An amateur job. If he'd used his
brains, he would at least have taken some valuables. But he didn't even
bother to open places where the book couldn't possibly be. That alone
pretty well shows who did it. He tried again yesterday, in my office,
actually pulled it off, but Clayton--well, all it accomplished was to
divert our attention."

He wondered remotely how they could fail to see what was happening to
him; and how long before it broke his shell and they could not escape
seeing.

"Bruce's immediate family?" said Yamamura. "No motive, no money, no
connections, no opportunity. Write 'em off. Can you think of any of his
friends at the University who aren't eliminated by the same reasoning?"

"No."

"But who's left? Clayton? What motive? And in all the months he's been
here, I'd have an inkling if he weren't honest. No hint of underworld
tie-ins. Who's left?"

Kintyre stood before the last wall. It had the form of a ship's tilted
deck.

"If I knew why," he said, holding his voice utterly planar, "I think
the how would follow. Why was Bruce killed? Because of something he
knew. It could only be that. He was tortured to get out of him the
precise extent of his knowledge, and who else might share it. That
other person is the next victim. But what was in Bruce's background?
A knowledge of history--the Book of Witches--correspondence with--"
His throat seemed to swell, it would not let the words out for a
moment--"with an uncle in Italy, who told him something--"

"Something about the Mafia?" snorted Yamamura. "Come, now!"

"Bruce didn't realize the significance of what he knew," said Kintyre.
Iron bands lay across his chest. "He couldn't have kept a secret like
that. He went to X, I suppose--with--a warning? Or mere gossip, as he
thought? What about? Surely not Cousin Giovanni, or the Albigensians.
What else was there? Some information on crime in the Mediterranean
countries. And--God help us!"

The table went over with a crash as Kintyre stood up. It was not
himself who screamed: "Margery! She's next in line!" Himself stood
among breakers and heard the mainmast split.

Yamamura looked at him, cursed, and reached for the telephone.

"I'm going over there," rattled Kintyre. "I might get there first. I
might, it might not be too late."

"They had all night," said Yamamura. His finger stabbed the dial.

Kintyre blundered into the door. He thought vaguely that he ought to
open it. Someone stood at his elbow. He shoved. "Take it slow," said
Guido. "Let me help you."

Yamamura said in the phone: "Tim? This is Trig. Never mind formalities.
Get a car to the apartment of Margery Towne. She may still be alive....
No, I don't remember the damned address! What's the directory for?"

"You're in no shape to steer a car," said Guido. "Where are your keys?
Come on and guide me."

Kintyre sat shaking all the way over. Guido drove with a Cossack will
to arrive at which a part of Kintyre, drowning among the reefs of
Taputenea, knew dim surprise.

They did not beat the police, though. Officer Moffat met them on the
front steps. Blankness lay in his gaze.

"We came too late," he said. "Her throat's cut."

"I expected that," said Kintyre.

The horror rose up and took him.




17


Jimmy O'Hearn was still snuffling when the police unbound him and led
him off to be booked. Inspector Harries went back into the yard with
Yamamura and Guido. "All right, Trig," he said, "now tell me just what
did happen."

"Dr. Kintyre, Mr. Lombardi's sister, and I went to see Mr. Lombardi
at the night club where he works," answered Yamamura. "He was pretty
worried. O'Hearn and another chap named Larkin had hired him to do a
certain out-of-town job over the very weekend his brother was killed.
He wondered if it was a coincidence."

"O'Hearn babbled something about a package of dope," said Inspector
Harries grimly. Guido became busy lighting a cigarette.

"Sure," said Yamamura. "Why not try to drag down the witnesses against
him? Where is this package?"

"Suppose you tell me yourself what the job was, Mr. Lombardi," said
Harries without warmth.

"Well, they did want me to go to Tijuana and get some pod," said Guido.
Yamamura had briefed him in a moment's stolen privacy. "I admit I went
down--is uncompleted intent a crime? I changed my mind and didn't
actually get the stuff." Impudence danced over his lips. "It'd have
been illegal. And also, thinking it over, I saw that the errand didn't
make sense. There are enough places right here that carry the same
line."

"Hm. Any witnesses?"

Guido shrugged. "No. How could there be? I suppose you can prove I was
in Tijuana and ate a few meals there."

"I would think you'd have more important things to do than asking out
the details of something which is contradicted only by the unsupported
word of a gangster," said Yamamura.

Harries considered him angrily. "You were my friend, Trig," he said.
"Don't add insult to injury."

"I had no choice," said Yamamura, very low.

"The night before last," said Guido, "Larkin showed up and got violent
with Professor Kintyre, who was talking to me. Quite a brawl. Larkin
got away, and Kintyre left too when I begged him. I admit I lied to the
officers afterward, claiming I didn't know either one of them, but by
then I was scared."

"Go on," grunted Harries.

"So we had a conference of friends-and-relations last night," said
Yamamura. "We decided it was best to make a clean breast with the
police. Ahem, that was my advice. But O'Hearn stopped us at gun point
as we came out the back way. He was going to kidnap Mr. Lombardi. We
got the upper hand, though. Yes, we took him over here, instead of
turning him in to the San Francisco authorities as we should have. Why?
First, Larkin might well be hanging around, and why should he be helped
by seeing a lot of uniforms and realizing what had happened to his
buddy? Second, we were afraid for our lives on that side and wanted to
get the hell away from there."

Harries gave him a thin look. "I know you. I don't believe that."

"A jury would," said Yamamura. "Let me go on. Dr. Kintyre took Miss
Lombardi home--she's entirely innocent in all of this. When he finally
arrived here, we were so bushed that none of us thought we could face
all the questions without a little sleep. Sure, sure, Inspector,
everything we did was foolish and mildly illegal, but consider how
exhausted we were. Much too tired to think straight. We tied O'Hearn to
the table--"

"Why the blindfold, for Pete's sake?"

"It just seemed like a good idea. When we woke up, we found O'Hearn had
the screaming meemies. Naturally we wouldn't lose such a chance, it
might not come again. We asked him some things. We talked it over. All
of a sudden the significance dawned on Dr. Kintyre. You know the rest."

"What I don't yet know is what you'll be charged with," said Harries.
"Among other things, some of the coldest-blooded lying I've heard all
week."

"Isn't that a problem for the district attorney?" asked Yamamura,
unruffled.

"Yes. And of course nothing will be done. You're comic book heroes--for
violating the Fifth Amendment!" Harries shook his head. "If it hadn't
been for all your shilly-shallying, Miss Towne might be alive this
morning."

"When was she killed?" asked Yamamura.

"The doctor thinks around midnight or one o'clock."

"Nobody could have known," said Yamamura. "Suppose we had turned
O'Hearn in directly. He had no idea who was slated to die: not even
what kind of job his associates were doing. He's just a goon."

"I suppose so." As he watched, Yamamura saw the anger go out of
Harries. "We'd still be interrogating him and getting no place. Whereas
now, maybe the San Francisco force can take the others in that house."
The inspector hesitated. "Officially, I can only condemn your actions,
including your concealment of facts. And you know I know fairly well
what those facts are. I'll have to report all this and--and hell,
there's no material evidence, and the D.A. has to consider public
opinion, and why waste funds on petty charges which would never
get past a jury? You'll get away with it this time. And strictly
unofficially, I've no right to say it, but I guess I'm not too damn mad
at you."

Yamamura did not smile. "I wish Bob could see it that way," he answered.

"What's the matter with him, anyhow?"

"A bad nervous spell. He gets them once in a while."

"Just like that?" asked Guido.

"No," said Yamamura. "It looks like a sudden collapse, but it isn't.
He worked hard through the academic year. It brought him close to the
edge, he needed a vacation badly. Instead, all this strain and--He
feels morbidly responsible. There are reasons for it. They lie in his
past and don't concern us."

"How about a psychiatrist?" inquired Harries.

"He hasn't got that kind of money. And we all have some such
curse--don't we now? Some people have dizzy spells. Some people are
hypochondriacs. Once every couple of years, Kintyre spends a few days
in hell."

"But what made him realize Miss Towne was--?"

"He answered the riddle, of course. He knew who had hired the killers,
and why. From that, it followed she was next."

Harries caught his arm so tightly he winced. "What?"

"Uh-huh," said Yamamura. "Wait, though. He didn't tell me."

"But he's in there now and--come on!"

Yamamura caught Harries by the shoulder and spun him around. "No," he
said. "It isn't right. Leave him alone."

"Leave the murderers alone, too!" snapped Harries.

Yamamura rubbed his chin. They could see how he slumped.

"There is that," he agreed. "Let me go in by myself, then, and talk to
him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kintyre thought he had carried it off very well. He had spoken
coherently with Moffat. The policeman told him in a sick voice that
blood had soaked through her mattress until the floor was clotted
beneath her bed. Guido swayed on his feet. Kintyre's face had remained
like carved bone.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Was jewelry lifted this time?" he asked. "Oh, yes, it was a
professional job, all the earmarks," said Moffat. "But did you see two
long gray cardboard boxes with files of papers? They'd be in plain
sight in the living room if they're there at all," said Kintyre. "No,
no such thing, the burglars must have taken them in the hope of finding
stowed cash," said Moffat. "The jewelry was only to make you think
that. Had she simply been murdered, or was she tied down first?" asked
Kintyre. "Yes, tied down, blindfolded, mouth full of towel," said
Moffat. "The burglars came in and grabbed her while she slept, secured
her so there would be no chance she could identify them," said Kintyre.
"That's not unheard of, but then why did they kill her afterward?"
asked Moffat. "Because the letter boxes were still open on the coffee
table," said Kintyre. "What?" said Moffat. "It proved she had been
reading Bruce Lombardi's mail; the burglars' orders were to get rid
of her if that was the case," said Kintyre. "Hey, how do you know all
this?" asked Moffat. But then Kintyre felt his control begin to crack,
so he turned about and went back to his car with Guido.

       *       *       *       *       *

He lay on his couch, pillowing his head with an arm, a cigarette in
the free hand. Now and then he noticed himself smoking it. The morning
streamed in through the window behind him and splashed light, and
the delicate shadows of leaves, on the wall before his eyes. Once he
remembered how a sunbeam, spearing through a sky roiled and black with
oncoming rain, had flamed from crest to crest along the ocean; he
watched the sun's shining feet stride past him. But there followed an
M which staggered among hideous winds, it spoke of Morna and Margery
and the Moon. He spent a long time wondering why M stood for the Moon
until he remembered Hecate, in whose jaws he lived. M was also for
Machiavelli, a Moldering skull which knew somewhat of Murder. But all
this was not important, it was Morbid and he only played with it on the
surface, as if it were spindrift driven by that wind he knew. In the
ocean of his damnation there were green Miles, which became black as
you went downward, drank all sunlight and ate drowned folk.

This, however, was natural and right, life unto life and he could
wish no better ending for himself than to breathe the sea. It must be
remembered, though, that Morna was only thirteen years old. She reached
for him through a shattering burst of water. He could not hear if she
screamed, the wind made such a haro, but a wave picked her up and threw
her backward and growled. He saw her long hair flutter in its white,
blowing mane. Then dark violence rolled over him.

He stirred, and felt that his cigarette had gone so short it would burn
his fingers. A part of him suggested he let it, but he ground the butt
out in an ashtray on the floor. What he was would not be lessened by a
few blisters, he thought.

It was not that he accepted guilt (he told the morning gulls on the
reef, among sharded timbers). It was that he was damned, without a God
or a Devil to judge him: it was merely in the nature of things that
he did nothing well. Morna should drown and Margery should drown--the
human body held that much blood--because-- no , said the seed of
survival within him, not because it was his fault.

And was there anything more irrelevant than the question of his guilt
or innocence? The sole fact that mattered was:

Morna, thirteen years old, hauled down under the sea and rolled across
a barnacled reef. He had found her washed up the next morning, before
the boat came out to rescue him. A strand of hair still clung in place,
darkened by water but more bright than the coral. He saw some of the
bones; a tiny crab ran out of her eye socket.

Kintyre hung onto the couch through a whiteness that hummed.

Ages afterward he remembered Margery. She had never spoken of it, but
he had an impression that she feared death. It ended future and past
alike, nothing would be, nothing had ever been. She must have told
herself often enough that maybe science would find a way to make her
immortal, before she died. But death was a long way off, fifty years or
more were a distance which dwindled the shape, only a small black blot
on the edge of her world.

She lay blind and bound, a towel choking her mouth. She could hear her
heart, how it leaped, she feared it would crack itself open. And then
the hand under her jaw, the nearly painless bite of the knife, and the
minutes it took for her blood to run out, while she lay there and felt
it!

"No," said Kintyre. "No, no, no. Please."

He reached hazily for another cigarette. He couldn't find the pack.
Suddenly he was afraid to look for it. He lay back on the couch. The
sunlight on the wall seemed unreal.

He didn't hear Yamamura come in. He needed a while to understand that
the detective was looking at him.

"What is it?" he got out somehow.

"Let's work some of that stiffness out," said Yamamura.

Kintyre didn't move. He wasn't sure he could. At least it didn't seem
worth while. Yamamura swore, hauled him to a sitting position, peeled
off his tee shirt and dumped him on the rug.

The Japanese massage, thumbs, elbows, and bare feet, was hard, cracking
muscles loose from their tension. Kintyre heard joints pop when
Yamamura straightened his arms. Once anguish got an oath from him.

"Sorry," said Yamamura. "I gauged wrong."

"Like hell! You did that on purpose!"

"Trade secrets. Now, over on your side."

In half an hour Kintyre was sitting on the couch, drawing ragged gulps
of smoke down his lungs. "All right," he said. "So you relaxed me
physically."

"Helps, doesn't it?" Yamamura leaned against the wall and mopped his
sweating face.

"Some. But no cure." Kintyre looked bleakly toward the afternoon and
the night.

"Didn't claim it was. Got any tranquilizers on hand?"

"Uh-huh. Only helps a little bit. I might as well ride these things
out."

"Same symptoms?"

"Yes. Futility. Loss. Destruction. Grief? No, that's too healthy
a word. I'm only talking to you with the top of my brain now, you
realize. It feels the same as ever, down below."

"Basically, you feel guilt," said Yamamura.

"Perhaps. I saw my sister drown. I was hanging onto a spar when the
ship broke up. She was swept past me. I reached out, our fingers
touched, then she was gone again. I didn't let go of the spar."

"If you had, both of you would have drowned. I know the Pacific surf.
With a typhoon behind it--You're guilty of nothing except better luck
than she had."

"Sure," said Kintyre. "I've told myself the same thing for twenty
years."

"You've told me this story three times so far," said Yamamura. "I don't
like parlor Freudianism, but it would seem obvious that something
deeper is involved than the mere fact that you survived and she didn't."

Kintyre half rose. He felt the lift of rage within himself. "Be
careful!" he shouted.

Yamamura's face went totally blank. "Ah-ha. Sit back, son. I'm still
the black belt man here. You'd only succeed in tearing up this nice
room."

Kintyre spat: "There was nothing!"

"I never said that. Of course there was nothing improper. I am
not implying you had any conscious thoughts whatsoever that you
can't safely remember. Or if you did now and then--and as for your
subconscious wishes--were they really so evil? She was the only girl of
your generation whom you'd see for weeks and months at a time. So you
loved her. Is love ever a sin?"

Kintyre slumped. Yamamura laid a hand on his shoulder. "There's a story
about two Zen Buddhist monks who were walking somewhere," he said.
"They came to a river. A woman stood by the bank, afraid to cross. One
of them carried her over. Then the two monks continued on their way.
The gallant one was singing cheerfully, the other got gloomier and
gloomier. Finally the second one exclaimed: 'How could you, a monk,
take up a woman in your arms?' The first one answered: 'Oh, are you
still carrying her? I set her down back at the ford.'"

Kintyre didn't move. "Forgive my amateur psychoanalysis," said
Yamamura. "It's none of my business." He paused. "I would only suggest
that it's no service to anyone we've cared for, not to let them rest."

He sat down beside Kintyre and took out his pipe. They smoked together
for a wordless while.

"Well," said Kintyre at last. "Have you figured out who's behind the
murders?"

"No. Think you can tell us? Feel free to wait."

"Oh, I can. M-m-m-m- margery --"

Yamamura worked powerful fingers along Kintyre's shoulders and the base
of his neck. "Go on," he said.

"Margery's death--brought back Morna's, I suppose--I failed them both.
I didn't need O'Hearn's story to determine who instigated all this. I
could have told you yesterday afternoon, if I'd used my head-- Ouch! "

"That," said Yamamura, "was to halt an incipient tailspin. I felt it
coming. You are not to blame for one damn item except being human and
therefore limited, fallible, and unable to do everything simultaneously
on roller skates. If you forget that again, I shall punch you in a more
sensitive spot. Now why don't you go swallow one of those chemical
consolations?"

"I told you they don't help much."

"I've no high opinion of 'em myself, but do so anyway."

When Kintyre had returned and sat down again, Yamamura said: "Okay,
carry on. Who is our man?"




18


"Clayton," said Kintyre.

"Huh?" The pipe almost dropped from Yamamura's hand. "What the hell!
Why, for God's sake?"

"Bruce got too much information about Clayton's rackets."

"What rackets? Clayton's straight! I never heard a hint--"

"Oh, yes. He's straight enough on this side of the Atlantic."

Yamamura muttered something profane. "How do you know?" he added.

"It fits the facts. Bruce was corresponding with his uncle Luigi, the
secret service man. Some discussion of highly organized postwar crime
syndicates in the Mediterranean countries came up. Now Clayton was a
go-getter type who'd lost everything he had three times in a row: the
Depression, his first wife's death, divorce from his second wife. It
must have embittered him, so that he determined he would never again
be poor and defenseless. He came to Italy as a Quartermaster officer
in the war. Perfect chance for black marketing, if a man didn't mind
taking a few risks. The miracle is not that a few QM people went bad
but that most stayed honest. Clayton probably started in a very small
way with cigarettes and K rations. But by the end of the war he was in
touch with some pretty big figures in the Italian underworld, and saw
the opportunities. He came right back after his discharge and went to
work at it full time.

"Obviously, he's a hell of a good organizer. He got in on the postwar
reconstruction of crime, along lines borrowed from gangland and
Communism. He probably set out as a currency black marketeer, working
through Switzerland. He soon expanded into other things, smuggling,
dope, prostitution, gambling, the works. He became rich."

"Have you any proof of all this?" interrupted Yamamura.

"Chiefly, that it and only it will fit the facts. Let me go on, I'll
fill in evidence as I proceed. The trouble with Clayton's riches was,
they were mostly in lire, French francs, and other soft valuta. Also,
governments all get nosy about resident aliens; he couldn't hope to
avoid suspicion forever, without a good cover. He solved both his
problems by becoming an importer. He bought European goods with his
European money, shipped them over here, and sold them for dollars. On
this side he's lily white, and familiar with prominent Americans of
unquestionable integrity. Knowing this, Europeans don't think he might
be something else on their continent. You can imagine the details."

"Yes," said Yamamura. "I can."

"Now for some facts as well as theories. Let's go back to Uncle Luigi.
He's trying to break these syndicates, one of which is headed by the
eminent Signor Clayton. Of course, because of its cell organization,
Luigi and his colleagues don't know that. If they did, they could crack
a lot of rackets open. All they have against Clayton is that a few of
his business associates have bad associates of their own, notably some
of the deported Italian-American gangsters. But what of it? Everybody
outside a monastery must know some dubious characters.

"Well, because Clayton came here to work at opening a San Francisco
branch, and because he brought the  Liber Veneficarum  along, he got to
know Bruce. In fact, they came to be on very friendly terms. Clayton is
genial enough, if you don't get in his way. Uncle Luigi, being somewhat
anti-American, insisted that Signor Clayton had an unfair advantage,
having started as a wealthy man with lots of dollars. That didn't fit
with Clayton's own rags-to-riches story. Bruce got indignant, checked
up, and established that Clayton had indeed been almost penniless
when he came to Italy. And Luigi, as I mentioned before, had also
happened to give Bruce some facts regarding crime, corruption, and the
syndicates.

"I don't know just when Clayton learned about all this discussion.
Perhaps a week ago last Sunday, when he saw Bruce over in the City and
refused to give Guido a job. Clayton admits Bruce got mad; perhaps he
said things then. Clayton smoothed his feathers and agreed to interview
Guido next day. Maybe Clayton was already spinning a plan.

"Or it may have been amicable. Bruce had no reason to suspect Clayton
of anything. We'd have known it otherwise; Bruce was constitutionally
incapable of keeping a secret. Maybe in the love feast following his
explosion, he blurted out how he had triumphantly refuted Uncle Luigi's
sneers at the Horatio Alger rise of Gerald Clayton, and planned to send
Uncle Luigi all the facts and demand an apology. At the same time,
Bruce could have spoken about the syndicates. He was just naïve enough
to have warned Clayton, who spent half his time overseas, to look out
for the mobs! Well, one way or another, Clayton drew him out, doubtless
in that conference they had after Guido was dismissed. Clayton was
alerted."

It was peculiar, thought Kintyre, that he could talk so coolly while
the horror was on him. But he had the horror locked away for this short
time, he heard it speaking but did not really feel it.

"He could have pumped both brothers on Monday," nodded Yamamura. "Bruce
in particular, but he would have seen how Guido might be made into a
decoy--uh-huh. So he called a Chicago mob. But--"

"But why? Isn't it obvious, Trig? Bruce and Luigi were corresponding
on two subjects which would explode if they were ever fitted together:
Clayton and the Old World rackets. When Bruce revealed that Clayton
had not, after all, started by depositing American dollars in Swiss
banks, Luigi would begin to wonder. Bruce had even casually agreed
that Clayton might have picked up a little loose change originally
on the black bourse, which did not strike him as very heinous. Luigi
might see deeper possibilities along those lines. Or things Luigi
wrote could even make Bruce wonder, who knows? It wouldn't necessarily
happen either way, but it was too big a risk to take. The American
government itself, if it gets interested, has ways to check on its
citizens abroad. So Bruce had to be eliminated. And he had to be
questioned first, in detail, to learn precisely what he did know and
who  else  knew. For instance, was Luigi already so well informed as to
be dangerous? This was a job for professionals."

"And there's where your theory creaks," said Yamamura. "If Clayton is
so law-abiding on American soil, where could he dig up his butcher boys
on such short notice?"

"That hint was in Bruce's files," said Kintyre. "Your information
about Clayton's telephoning adds detail. He must have called one of
his not-very-respectable Italian associates. I seem to remember the
name Dolce, you can try that on the switchboard girl for recognitionor.
Does the phone office keep records of such things? I don't know. Let's
assume he called Dolce, to give the man a name. He ordered him: 'Get
hold of a recent deportee from America'--you can guess who better
than I, Trig--'and ask him how I can get in touch with a professional
killer in this country.' He may have phrased it more euphemistically,
but that was the sense of it. Next day Dolce or whoever called back.
(Why else should a busy man like Clayton hang around home? Why not take
the call in his office? Because his office deals directly with Italy,
the switchboard girl there probably speaks the language and might
eavesdrop.) Thus Clayton got the number of Silenio, and any passwords
or the like that were needed. He went out to a pay booth and called
him. O'Hearn has told us the rest."

Yamamura nodded. "Could be," he said.

"Tell me what else will explain the facts. And let me continue. Clayton
came over here last Thursday on business, and threw a party in his
suite for historians and literary scholars, including Bruce and me.
I rather imagine he was looking for another red herring. Owens must
have been promising. Not that Owens seems to have been jockeyed into
anything, as Guido was, but Clayton dropped hints detrimental to him
later on.

"Clayton made sure of being alibied the whole weekend. Of course, it
was simple enough to make the call which lured Bruce to his death. He
could have phoned from a pay booth right in sight of the world. I don't
know what he told Bruce, probably that he might have something for
Guido after all but it was confidential. Make your own lie.

"Monday he returned to the City. Silenio reported to him, got paid
off, and was told to wait. Clayton had a problem: Bruce's files were
still in Margery's apartment. Silenio would have learned that. Clayton
had to choke off this last source of information. He came back here
Tuesday and invited me to lunch with him. I gave him some idea of how
well his tracks really were covered--and when I told him Margery's
place had already been raided, it was a shock. He questioned me, found
that the papers he was after were still unread, and deftly turned
suspicion back on Owens: where for once it actually belonged. However,
he must have felt the need to act fast. So he stayed in Berkeley,
though he'd told me at lunch he planned to go back to San Francisco.
(Will any hypothesis of yours explain why he changed his mind and spent
more than twenty-four unproductive hours on this side? He, the animated
cash register?) I met him again on Wednesday, when we had our run-in
with Owens."

Kintyre sighed. "That's the damnable part of it. I sat there drinking
coffee with the true, ultimate murderer. He urged me to take Margery
out. I told him I had another engagement. If I had gone out with her,
she'd be alive. God, if she'd dated him she might be! He was going to
ask her. She told me, when I mentioned it, that she would refuse his
invitation. He wanted to get her out of the way. But when she stayed--

"I helped her read those letters!"

"Slow down there," said Yamamura.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was still later when the detective went back outdoors. An officer
was watching Guido, who was laying out a solitaire hand on the stoop.
The policeman said: "Inspector Harries would like to get a formal
statement from you at headquarters, sir."

Yamamura nodded. Guido raised his brows and slanted his head at the
cottage. "Could be worse," said Yamamura. "Suppose you leave him alone
for an hour or so and then go in and make him some lunch."

"Sure," said Guido.

The policeman followed Yamamura out the drive. At the station, he was
shown directly into Harries' office. The inspector was just laying down
the phone. "San Francisco," he said. "They raided that address. Traces
of occupancy, but nobody home."

"Any other news?" Yamamura sat down and folded his long legs.

"They let the Michaelises go. Gene broke down when they did--reaction,
I guess--and admitted where he'd been Saturday night and Sunday.
Shacked up."

"I wouldn't think he'd try to hide that. He'd have bragged."

"This time he had two metal legs and he paid. Not much, he hasn't got
much, but he paid, for the first time in his life."

"Poor bastard. I can imagine how he feels."

"Well," said Harries, "what does Kintyre think?"

Yamamura told him.

Harries whistled. "That wouldn't even get past a grand jury," he said.

"It's a line worth further investigation, though," said Yamamura
mildly. "I wonder where Clayton is right now?"

Harries snatched up the phone. Yamamura waited.

The inspector hung up with a bang. "Not at the Fairhill. I'll try his
place in the City, and the office. Know the numbers?"

Presently: "Not there, either. Well, it's no crime. But I'll put a man
on it."

"About releasing information to the press," said Yamamura. "Could you
withhold any mention of Kintyre? He's in no shape to see reporters, or
even tell them to go away."

"Glad to," said Harries. "We're going to sit on the facts as much as
possible. We'll get the papers to cooperate. Why let the killers know
what we know? They can guess we hold O'Hearn, but not that O'Hearn
squealed."

"Good. Now let me make that statement so I can get back to my own
office. Maybe a client has shown up, for a change."

None had. Yamamura polished his new sword. A thought nagged the back of
his being. If Clayton was guilty, why should Clayton disappear? Harries
was right, Kintyre's reasoning was skeletal. Without further evidence,
it wouldn't be enough to arrest a dog for flea scratching. Clayton
would do best to sit tight and be wronged righteousness.

But did he know that? O'Hearn had been sent after Guido merely because
Larkin had gotten in a fight at the Alley Cat. If Larkin had not
remembered the name "Kintyre" and reported it through Silenio, Clayton
could still have made a shrewd guess at it. Yamamura picked up his own
phone and dialed.

"Hi, Bob. How goes it?"

"I'm breathing," said Kintyre listlessly.

"Nobody at the murder house. Clayton has dropped from sight, too. You
and Guido could be the next targets. Want a police guard?"

"No. He wouldn't be stupid enough to try for us just now," said
Kintyre, without great interest. "Especially when he doesn't know how
much I know. He would establish that first--yes, that would need his
personal attention. Let's reconstruct it."

He voiced his thoughts as they ran, in flat metallic words. "Larkin and
Silenio got back from their--their mission--and didn't find O'Hearn at
the house. They waited till they got alarmed, then bolted and called
Clayton in Berkeley. That would have been in the small hours, before
sunrise. Clayton could have called the old Lombardis, pretending to be
an anxious friend, and found Guido had not come home. The same pretense
might have worked with the San Francisco police--nope, they had no word
of any Guido Lombardi--no O'Hearn. He would also have drawn a blank in
Berkeley. So. Somebody picked them both up. In view of the Alley Cat
episode, he would suspect me. I remember now my phone rang, early in
the morning. I didn't answer. Was that him, trying to check if I was at
home? If he drove by, he'd have seen my shades pulled. He had no way
of knowing O'Hearn was right here. He would have concluded: either I
had nothing to do with it, or I had taken O'Hearn somewhere for private
investigation.

"If he rubbed me out and I was innocent of meddling, well, too bad. He
dared not assume anything except that Guido and I had O'Hearn--where?
If he could track us down and dispose of us--of anyone who might finger
him--yes, then later on he could bribe someone, a call girl perhaps, to
give him a perjured alibi for the time involved, if any alibi was ever
needed. Then nothing could ever be proved about his misdeeds on this
side of the water. Of course, the Italian police and American foreign
agents might be clued to his overseas work--but at worst he could stay
home, or retire to some South American country that won't extradite
him. But all this, avoiding arrest long enough to regain his balance,
it all hinges on finding me--"

Kintyre's voice trailed off. Yamamura heard the receiver crash down.

Somewhat later his phone rang again. Kintyre said like a machine:
"Trig, you can get the official ear quicker than I. Last night Corinna
said she'd wait home till I called. I just did. There's no answer."




19


The Phone buzzed. Kintyre snatched it up. "Well?" he cried.

"Trig. Headquarters has just gotten word from San Francisco. Miss
Lombardi isn't home. They checked inside with the superintendent's
passkey. No trace of a ruckus. Couldn't she simply have gone out?"

"Look," said Kintyre. His vocal chords felt stiff. "This concerned her
own family, herself--and O'Hearn, whom she had been forced to slug.
I'd promised to call with the latest news. Would you have stepped out,
even for a minute?"

"No. Of course, they queried her neighbors, parents, employer, and so
forth. At last reports they were still getting nulls."

"Another thing," said Kintyre. "Clayton knew she saw me last night. I
mentioned it to him yesterday afternoon!"

It whistled in his receiver. Then: "So you think he picked her up in
the hope of finding out exactly where you are and what you know. Isn't
that taking quite a risk?"

"For him, it's a greater risk to remain passive," said Kintyre. "Didn't
we agree that if necessary he can probably buy a witness to account
for a day or so absence? Though if Bruce, Guido, C-c-corinna, and
I--Margery--if we've simply been found murdered, he might not even need
that. There'll be no evidence to convict him."

"But why should he gamble his own precious hide? Let Silenio and Larkin
do this job too."

"No. For one thing, Corinna might have been under protection
already--God, if we'd had the brains to request it!"

"Mm, yes, I see. A gangster could ring her doorbell and pull a gun when
she opened, and be nabbed the next minute if the police did have a
stakeout. Clayton is a friend of her family; she'd invite him in and he
could extract the gun in privacy after conversation had established it
was safe to do so."

"That's it. Clayton doesn't know what we know. All he's sure of is that
somebody has O'Hearn. He's got to find out who."

"Does it matter so much? O'Hearn doesn't know Clayton."

"But he knows Silenio, who does. Now suppose the police do have
O'Hearn. They won't get the facts from him in a hurry, so there'll be
time to dispose of those of us who Corinna tells Clayton know more
than he likes. However, eventually the police will learn a few things,
and in Chicago they'll be prepared to arrest Silenio and Larkin for
questioning. So he'll have to give Silenio and Larkin a prolonged
vacation somewhere, till the whole affair has blown over.

"On the other hand, if I am keeping O'Hearn, I can be expected to get
rough. Therefore Clayton and his friends will have to act in an awful
hurry. But if they succeed, all will be well for them: because I and
any associates of mine will have been eliminated, in the course of
rescuing O'Hearn, and no clues at all will be left for the police."

"Games theory," murmured the telephone. "You plan your strategy on the
basis of the strategy your opponent would plan on the basis of the
information you believe him to have. But this game is for keeps. What
do you think we ought to do?"

"Throw out a dragnet, of course," said Kintyre. "As for the news angle,
the knowledge we admit having--"

"That's an obvious one. The police can handle it. Though frankly,
events will probably move so fast that our news releases won't
influence them one way or another. Sorry, Bob, it had to be said.

"One more item. Now that their house is unsafe, have you any idea where
they'll go?"

Kintyre groaned. "That's the one thing I can't even guess."

"You've done pretty well so far," said the gentle tone. "Need any help?"

"Yes," said Kintyre. "Get out there and find her."

"I'll do what I can," said Trygve Yamamura.

Kintyre hung up. Guido sat knotted about a kitchen chair. "Well?" he
asked raggedly.

"You were listening," said Kintyre. "They've got her. Give me a
cigarette."

"My sister," mumbled Guido.

Kintyre barked an obscenity. "Hell of a brother she's got," he said.

He lit up and stalked the kitchen floor. The clock said after eleven.
Corinna had been taken--when? Three-plus hours ago, at a guess. But
they would have had to find a place to question her. That would give a
little time. They could conceivably be en route this minute.

"We're being a pair of prize schtunks," said Guido.

"Hm?" Kintyre threw him a look.

"Sitting here calling each other hard names. I mean, we ought to be out
searching for her."

"Where?"

"Any place!" Guido's face was drawn taut; there was a tic over his
right eye. "Every address we eliminate is something."

"How many houses in the Bay Area?" Kintyre flopped onto a chair.
Through the doors he had locked in himself, the horror hooted.

"Well, for Chrissake, man," said Guido, "I don't mean to search the
bishop's! We can think of some possible places, can't we?"

"I don't know."

"Ah, spit. We're doing nobody any good. Let's go for a ride. It might
clear our brains some."

"The great American solution. Let's go for a ride."

Guido regarded Kintyre for a moment or so.

"Does it help you to feel superior, cat?" he asked quietly.

Kintyre's head jerked up. After a few seconds:

"Okay. I'll just phone in to let the police know we're going."

They left the cottage and Guido took the wheel of Kintyre's old black
sedan. "Any special route, Doc?" he inquired.

"Oh, I don't know. The coast highway, southbound."

"State One? It's a bastardly slow drive beyond the freeway."

"What have we to hurry for?"

Guido slid the car into smooth motion. One-handed, he lit a fresh
cigarette. "My solitary trick," he said wryly.

"You sing pretty well," said Kintyre.

"Not as well as I might. That takes work, and I'm not that interested."

"What are you interested in?" Kintyre responded mechanically.

"Right now, getting her back unhurt," said Guido. "Think there's a
chance?"

"I thought we were going to clear our brains," rapped Kintyre.

They remained silent past the tollgate. Once they were on the bridge,
with the quicksilver sheet of the Bay under them and San Francisco
thinly misted ahead, Guido nagged:

"Where could they go? It'd have to be some place nobody would hear
them, no cops would come around to. Pretty short notice to rent a
house again. I mean, especially when an alarm might go out with their
descriptions. Of course, they could just bust into a house offered to
let."

"The police will be checking that."

"Uh-huh. Only Doc, wouldn't they expect it and try to outsmart the
police? Dig me? Let's turn off at the ramp. I'm a waterfront kid, I
know some old places where you could get in and--"

"Would they know about it?" snorted Kintyre.

"I suppose not." Crestfallen, Guido held the car in the middle lane.
When they got onto the southbound freeway, he opened up.

Kintyre, a conservative driver, had never pressed his car to the limit.
Now he saw the needle hover at ninety; wind snapped by the doors. "You
want a ticket?" he asked.

"I don't much care," said Guido roughly. "Man, I got to do something,
don't I? If I can't help her, I got to do something."

The minutes passed. No patrol car sirened at them. There was not,
indeed, much traffic at this time of a Thursday. As they fled south,
onto the old two-lane highway, the sky grew overcast.

"Nuts," said Guido. "There'll be fog along the coast. We'll have to
crawl. Let's turn back."

"No," said Kintyre. "Keep going."

Guido stole an indignant look at him. "Wait a second," he began.

"Keep going, I said!" Kintyre roared it.

Guido started. Then, shrugging, he gave his attention back to the road.
"Is it that important?" he asked.

Kintyre didn't answer because he didn't know. He sat hunched into
passivity, not caring how fast they went or if they crashed. It
shouldn't matter to him where he was taken. But it did. He couldn't
tell why-- damn that fouled subconscious of mine, anyway!  But it was
like a hand upon him.

Perhaps it was only that he had to get back for a while to the great
shouting decency of the ocean.

"You're a funny one, Doc," said Guido after a long time.

"Aren't we all?"

"You're crazy, even for a human being. I mean, you're the cat who's
had the adventurous life, got the culture, made the big success--oh,
yes, you don't get paid much, but you know damn well how far you've
succeeded and how much further you can go--you're everything Bruce
wanted to be. Hell, you're everything I wish I wanted to be. And you
can't wait to die!"

Kintyre said, jarred: "That isn't true. I'm just in a bad mood."

"So am I, Doc, so am I. Think I dare let myself imagine about Corinna?
Think I enjoy realizing how poorly I've shown up in the last few days?
But I keep going. What is it makes you fold up?"

Kintyre turned his face from the bluffs now humping up around him,
toward Guido. There was a radiation of vitality from the other man;
something had disfigured it, so that his days ran out in pettiness, but
he would always be more alive than most.

"Why do you stay around here?" asked Kintyre slowly.

"Man, I like it."

"Can't you see it's poison for you? As long as you stay where you were
a child, you'll always be one. If you could get away, you'd have a
chance to grow up."

Guido reddened. "Thanks, Mother Superior."

"I'm not trying to insult you. I'm only thinking, your trouble could be
caused by a situation. A place. Did you get overseas in the Army?"

"No, unless you count Alaska."

"And of course it wasn't your kind of life. All you'd think about
would be going home. But suppose you went somewhere else, someplace
congenial--and stayed. I wonder if you mightn't feel like buckling
down. You could still make a name for yourself, or at least a fair
living, as an entertainer. If you'd try."

"Go where?"

"Well, Trig Yamamura has connections in Honolulu. Or via people I know,
we could probably finagle a start in New York, if you'd rather. The
main point would be, stay away from here! For a few years anyhow, till
you got your feet well planted."

Guido said in a low voice: "I've thought the same from time to time.
But Bruce was the only one who ever got behind me and pushed, and he
didn't have any such contacts."

He smiled. "Could be, Doc, that blue funk of yours is also situational.
If I need to get away, maybe you need to settle down. Dig? Pipe,
slippers, a wife and a lot of runny-nosed kids to worry about, instead
of whatever dead thing it was that happened years ago."

"Let's quit the personal remarks," said Kintyre.

They drove on. The sea came into view, tumbling at the foot of steep
yellowish cliffs. It was a cold, etched gray, under a gray sky. There
was no clear horizon, sky and water ran together in mist. Guido had to
slow down somewhat on the curves, but he managed a dangerous speed.
Tires squealed and once he passed another car on a hill and avoided
collision only by some inspired steering.

When they had left Berkeley more than an hour behind, he asked: "How
far do you want to go, anyway?"

"Go on," said Kintyre.

"How come?"

Kintyre didn't answer.

At Half Moon Bay, the beach was empty and the clustered cabins forlorn;
fog had closed in until you could not see past the breakers. It was
clammy out there.

"Never liked the coast myself," said Guido. "She did--does, God damn
it! She's queer for beach picnics. Likes to play volley ball and make
sand castles."

Kintyre unclenched his fists.

"If we don't get her back," said Guido, almost matter-of-factly, "of
course I can't leave home. The old lady won't have nobody left but me."

He crammed his foot on the gas. The car spurted ahead. The ground
climbed again.

Presently they were on a deserted stretch. The land fell too abruptly
to attract visitors: most places had no way down to the water. Sere
brown hills lifted on the east side of the highway, trees huddled along
them in clumps. The fog came streaming over the road.

"Now what?" said Guido. "It'll be socked in farther south."

"Continue," said Kintyre.

"Like hell!" Mutiny leaped on the dark snub face. "I've gone far
enough. How d'you know they don't need us back in town?"

Kintyre felt his muscles congeal.

"What's the matter?" Guido stamped on the brakes. The car skidded to a
halt.

Kintyre shuddered. The horror screamed, once, and drained from
him. He knew remotely that it was not conquered--not yet--but his
disintegrated self had coalesced for at least the time during which all
of him would be needed.

He said, hearing his voice like another man's:

"Can you push this car back up to ninety going onward?"

"Huh?"

"I think I know where Corinna is."

Guido's hands slackened on the wheel. Suddenly they tensed again. The
car growled from the shoulder and began to accumulate speed.

"I don't want to pile us up," said Guido, "but I guess I could average
fifty. Where is she?"

"Do you know Point Perro?"

"I don't believe so."

"It's a little privately owned cove. Not far to go now. It's fenced
off, posted, and there's nothing from the road to indicate it even has
a beach. You couldn't find a lonelier spot in a day's driving."

Cloven air bawled past the windows. Guido squinted into thickening
fog. He could only see a few yards ahead before the gray curtain fell;
he had to imagine when the turns were coming up, and take them on two
wheels. All at once Kintyre was terrified of an accident.

"I mentioned it to Clayton a couple of days ago," he said. The words
came out one by one. "I seem to have forgotten that--down underneath,
perhaps, I didn't want to admit to myself I'd given him any help--but I
don't think it was coincidence I chose this route. Never mind. Clayton
is an Easterner. His time out here has been spent entirely in the
respectable sections of the Bay Area. Silenio and Larkin are complete
strangers. How would they know where to take her, except some such
randomly learned-about spot as this? At least, it's one chance for us.
One chance!"

Guido said above the wind, the engine, and the wheels: "If you're
right, Doc, it's even a good chance. An Easterner would drive a lot
slower than me along this route, especially when they hit the fog. We
might catch up to them."

"They've had hours," said Kintyre. "On the other hand, they had to meet
each other too, and confer. They're not supermen, they would try to
think of something, and argue about their plans, for a long time while
they just drove aimlessly, surely not in this direction. We can hope."

"If they've done anything to her," said Guido, his face the mask of
flayed Marsyas, "I myself will--"

"You'll let me off at Point Perro," said Kintyre. "Then burn up the
motor getting to a phone. Don't waste time on any sheriff's office,
call Berkeley headquarters direct. They can call the local authorities
for you. It should actually be quicker that way."

"You, though," said Guido. "I can't leave you alone with them."

"Do you want to help Corinna, or do you want to get yourself sliced
open for no purpose at all? You're a better driver, so you can get help
sooner. I'll have a better chance of delaying matters down in the cove."

"I suppose so." Guido spoke it with difficulty.

"' One must therefore be a fox to recognize traps, and a lion to
frighten wolves ,'" recited Kintyre in Machiavelli's Italian. "' Those
that wish to be only lions do not understand this. '"

Guido laughed shakily. "Modest fellow," he said.

Kintyre would have liked to clap his shoulder, but dared not. They were
going seventy miles an hour on a winding road and it was becoming less
visible each minute.

"Good for you," he said. "We'll salvage you yet." After another mile:
"Or do you even need it any more?"




20


The fog had grown so dense that Kintyre knew his goal only by the car
parked at the roadside. "Don't stop!" he cried, the moment it hove into
view. "Brake easy. Let me out a hundred yards on." He began to open
the door. "The nearest phone I remember is a gas station a few miles
farther south. Don't raise your own posse and come back. They'd hear
you and might shoot her first. Wait for the police. Good luck."

They rolled softly through a dripping gray swirl. Kintyre stepped from
the car. Contact jarred in his feet. Almost, he fell, running alongside
it in search of balance. Then the dark wet body slipped from him and
was lost. He heard a muffled slam as Guido closed the door, the rising
drone of speed, and now just his shoes thudding on pavement.

He stopped himself and jogged back. He was no track star, but he
remembered to conserve his wind. The fog was moving with him, its
eddies and streamers gave him the nightmare sense of a treadmill bound
south. He could see the highway and something of the right-hand cliff
that rose up and lost itself overhead. To his left there was nothing,
world's edge and smoky endlessness. The air was chill.

Presently he regained the automobile. It was a new model, built for an
impression of lowness and width; it sat and bared its teeth between
blind headlights like some garish dinosaur defying the glaciers. Judas!
Suppose this was only a harmless passer-by? But a signboard told him
POINT PERRO, and who else would have come today? Kintyre tried the
door. It wasn't locked. He eased it open to read the registration on
the steering column.

Gerald R. Clayton. So. Kintyre felt his hands shaking. One more
reassurance, before he went down the path. The dashboard thermometer
showed the engine still warm. They hadn't been here long.

 I do not wish for a God to help me , he thought.  But I wish I had one
to thank. 

He filled his lungs and emptied them, filled and emptied them. Those
were dank breaths, but they helped him ease up. He had three armed men
to face; if he must also war with himself, it would be hopeless. Not
that he felt any great conviction of winning. But--yes. He reached
under the dash and yanked loose the ignition wires. After he was dead,
that might delay their escape with Corinna.

He climbed the low barbed-wire fence. It guarded a jut of cliff maned
with harsh yellow grass. You had to go to its very edge to see that
there was a beach underneath. As he approached, he began to hear the
surf. Incoming tide: breakers crashed among rocks, the water streamed
down again with a roar, whirlpools gurgled in small grottoes. He did
not think a human cry would be heard this far above.

When he came to the brink, he could just make out a sketch of jumbled
crags and a laciness on the bull combers; then the rifted mist hid
the sea from him again. There would be a highness to either side, the
arms enclosing this inlet, but those were lost in the gray. He walked
cautiously until he saw the path, a goat track plunging downward.

Its dirt was gritty under his feet. Despite himself, he loosed gravel
showers now and again. After each he stopped, crouching and listening
for voices. There were none: only the surf, snorting more loudly every
time. The fog was his friend, could he have approached without it? Yes,
he'd have found a way somehow, swum around a headland if he must, but
the fog helped him. No proof of supernatural assistance, of course;
this was a notoriously wet stretch of coast; however, he was advantaged
thereby.

At the cliff's foot he stood among half-seen boulders and considered
where his enemy might be. Not more than a hundred yards from him,
but he had perhaps fifty feet of unclear vision. This pea soup was
thickening by the minute. If the others arrived, say, twenty minutes
ago, they would have been granted better visibility, could have
selected a spot. Kintyre stretched his memory. The cliffs made a
semicircular wall, with driftwood and great stones at its foot; the
diameter was a narrow strip of sand, paralleled by a line of rocks.
These latter were below high-water mark and would be drenched already.
Kintyre could just glimpse the sleet-colored ocean breasting them.
Okay. So his quarry was under the cliff. Was there some way to lure one
of them out?

An idea came. It was hazardous, but no more so than blundering blind.
And he was not afraid of what might happen to him. In a certain way, he
had been given another chance to rescue Morna; he could not but take it.

Crouching in the rocks, he started to cough, as much like a sea lion's
bark as he could manage. It was a bad imitation, but he dealt with
pavement people. The noise went deep, wet, and ringing among the
breakers.

"What's that?"

From the right! Kintyre fell on his stomach and began to eel his way
over the rocks.

"A gahdam seal yet." Larkin's youthful whine. "Holy Moses, what a spot!"

"Better go see." It was an unfamiliar bass. Silenio.

"Ah, nuts, you go."

"You heard me, Terry," said Silenio.

"The girl knows this coast," said Clayton. Kintyre flowed over a
bleached white tree trunk. It snagged his shirt, he had to stop and
fumble for his liberty. And the fog talked and talked.

"It's just a seal, isn't it, Miss Lombardi?"

No answer.

"Silenio," said Clayton.

A tearing gasp: "Let go, you'll break my arm, let go!"

"I'm sorry to have to do this, Miss Lombardi," said Clayton. "But
now that we've gotten settled here, such things will happen pretty
continuously. Unless you cooperate. So to start with--that was a seal
we heard barking, wasn't it?"

"Yes.  Oh! "

"Go look, Terry," said Silenio.

Kintyre put his ear to the stones. He heard them rattle. If he could
intercept Larkin, get him from behind without any noise....

He tried to judge whence the footsteps came. There were no more voices,
no sound at all except Larkin and the sea. Kintyre followed, bent
nearly double.

When he saw the vague shape, he changed course to intercept. Larkin was
little more than a trench coat and a hat, fog-blurred. He was making
no attempt to be silent, he slipped and stumbled, but his progress was
quick. Kintyre decided he was going to get away, rose and sprinted the
last few yards.

Larkin heard the hunter. He turned. "What--" Kintyre hit him. They went
down together. Kintyre tried to get an arm around Larkin's throat. He
didn't quite manage it. Larkin screamed.

That was a lost cause already. Kintyre wriggled free of threshing arms
and legs, rolled away and bounded to his feet. Larkin was crawling to
hands and knees. His face was a white blob with holes for eyes and
mouth. He continued to scream.

Kintyre fled toward the sand. He heard Silenio curse. "What is it?
What's going on out there?"

"It's a raid!" bawled Larkin. He reeled erect, the switchblade in one
hand.

"Get back here!" said Silenio.

Kintyre whirled and threw himself prone. The sand was hard against his
stomach. He could make out Larkin at the very edge of visibility, head
weaving around. "Where did he go?" Larkin was crying. "Where is he?"

"Get back, I said, back here before I start shooting!" yelled Silenio.

Larkin groped a way toward the bodiless voice. Kintyre went on hands
and feet this time, a quadruped rush. Larkin heard something and looked
behind him. Kintyre went flat, simultaneously. Larkin faced back toward
the cliff and resumed. Kintyre came after him again.

Three feet away, Kintyre stood up and leaped.

Larkin could not miss that. He spun on one heel, his knife already
slicing. Kintyre moved in, presenting his left side, staying just out
of reach. Larkin stepped forward. He was wary on the uncertain footing,
too wary to be thrown hard. Kintyre feinted a blow with his left hand.
Larkin slipped aside to avoid it. That took some of the rattlesnake
speed off his striking blade. Kintyre's right hand chopped down, edge
on, as he bent at the waist. The steel went half an inch past his
belly. His hand connected with the arm behind. In that awkward stance
it was not a blow of the real bone-cracking force, but Larkin moaned
and went down on one knee.

Kintyre kicked at his neck. Larkin lowered his head and took the impact
on the skull. This boy was good! It threw him onto his back, though.
Kintyre circled for an opening. Larkin sat up, poised the knife in one
hand, and threw it.

Kintyre felt a dull blow in his left biceps. He stared down. The knife
stood in the muscle, blood was a red shout against skin and cloth.
Larkin scrambled to his feet and pelted in the direction of Silenio's
cries.

Kintyre knew little shock. Coolness at such moments was normal; he even
had time to think that. The blood was simply oozing around the steel,
no important vessel had been cut. He went after Larkin.

The boy slipped on a wet rock. There were shadows ahead, Clayton's
lair? Kintyre sprang for him. To hell with defensive judo. Larkin had
just gotten up. He heard the feet which followed, turned around and
lifted his hands. "Help!" he shrieked.

"I'm coming!" cried Silenio in the gray.

Larkin flung himself into a clinch. His arms wrapped around Kintyre's
waist with astonishing strength. Automatically, Kintyre's right arm
went up to jam into his larynx. But Larkin's chin was down, guarding
the throat. His right hand let go and reached after the knife in
Kintyre's flesh.

Kintyre pressed a thumb into the boy's jugular. Larkin choked and
pulled himself free. The knife came with him, in his grasp; blood
runneled from the metal. He stepped in to rip. Kintyre's right hand
traveled up. The heel of it struck Larkin at the root of the nose.

Larkin gurgled and flopped backward. His face was no longer quite
human: the blow had driven his nasal bone into the brain. So much for
him.

Silenio burst from cold clouds. He was a squat balding man with a round
blue-cheeked face. There was an automatic in his hand. He looked a
fractional second upon Kintyre and the body. Then he fired.

Kintyre was already running. He didn't hear the bullets, or even the
ricochets, only the flat  smack! smack! smack!  as the gun went off
behind him. He crouched low, zigzagging a little. A pistol is not a
very accurate weapon. When he felt sand under his feet again, he looked
back. Nothing but fog. He heard Clayton and Silenio calling to each
other.

He glanced down at his wounded arm. It bled merrily. He flexed the
fingers, tested their resistance to pressure: good, nothing had been
severed which a few stitches wouldn't heal. But until he got the
stitches, if ever, he had an arm and a half at best.

And Clayton and Silenio were still holding Corinna. It wouldn't take
them long to think of making a hostage of her.

Kintyre hurried to the base of the cliff and went along it as quietly
as he could. A weapon, how about throwing stones, no, they all seemed
too large or too small. Bare hands were limited by the reach of an arm.
Passing a log, he stopped to feel after clubs. He found a broken-off
branch, four feet long and not very crooked. It had a narrow end,
almost a point. Salt water and weather had turned it bone-white,
iron-hard.

Kintyre followed the cliff. When he heard them talking again, he went
with his back flat against it. Total silence would be his one chance,
when he got into seeing range; they mightn't look his way.

They sat behind a log, a yard or two from the precipice. Clayton was
huddled into a topcoat, hands in pockets, squatting wretchedly on a
flat boulder. Silenio stood up, sentrylike, the gun in his hand.

Corinna sat facing Clayton. Her arms were free; a rope lashed her
ankles. The long hair was heavy with dampness. She didn't seem to have
been injured yet, except for that one short episode--

"It could only have been Kintyre," Clayton was saying. "And alone.
Otherwise this beach would be solid with police."

"He may have the whole force on its way here," grumbled Silenio.

"That's possible. I think we had better get going. But remember, it's a
single man. If you can nail him, we're safe."

Clayton stooped and began to untie Corinna. "I'm sorry about this," he
said.

"Like hell you are!" she spat. Even now, Kintyre must grin at her rage,
it was so much Corinna.

"As you like," shrugged Clayton.

"Why are you doing this?" she asked, almost with wonder.

Sudden pain sharpened Clayton's voice: "I've got three children. They'd
be dragged down with me. The mud would stick to them all their lives.
No!"

Kintyre glided forward. Corinna spied him over Clayton's shoulder.
Through the watery air he saw her lips part. She cocked her head and
looked out at sea. "What was that?" she exclaimed.

Clayton and Silenio turned wholly from Kintyre. He made the last few
yards in a rush.

Silenio whipped around. Kintyre was almost upon him. He raised the gun.
Kintyre thrust with his stick. It was ill-balanced, but he had fenced
for many years. He got Silenio's hand and knocked it around. The gun
went off with a crack; stone and lead spurted. Kintyre jabbed Silenio
in the stomach. Silenio fell to his knees. He still had the gun.
Kintyre snapped the point of his stick to the back of his enemy's hand
and bore down. Bones parted; the stick went through, into the sand.

Silenio howled and tried to pull it loose. From the edge of his eye,
Kintyre glimpsed Clayton's bulky frame launched at him. He let go the
stick and caught an extended arm. He heaved Clayton over his shoulder
and onto the rocks.

Silenio freed himself and scrabbled for the automatic. Kintyre put his
foot on it. Silenio rose and threw himself at his opponent. The weight
struck Kintyre's left biceps. Agony went like lightning. He staggered
back, holding the arm.

The man from Chicago laughed. He picked up the gun, awkwardly
left-handed, and fired.

And missed. Kintyre recovered himself, moving in again. Another shot
went off nearly in his face. Another miss. There wouldn't be a third,
he knew. He snatched up the stick. Silenio backed off, grinning with
hatred. He steadied his left hand with the wounded right and took
careful aim.

Kintyre lunged. It was a swordsman's movement, more leap than stride,
with all his mass behind it. He took Silenio in the throat.

Silenio dropped the gun, clawed at the stick, and began to fold up. He
tried to call out, but could only say blood. He sat down in a dazed
way, plucked at his neck, and bled to death.

Kintyre had no time to notice it. He saw Clayton coming back. It did
not seem possible Clayton could still move; the left side of his face
was one giant bruise, the cheek flayed. Kintyre groped after the gun.
Where was it?

Clayton advanced with a rush. He fell the last six feet. Raising his
head and his arm, he showed metal in the hand. "Got it!" he said.

Kintyre pounced on him. They rolled over, kneeing and gouging. Clayton
hammered a fist on Kintyre's hurt. The grasp on him loosened. Clayton
writhed free, got up and ran. The fog whirled him from sight.

Kintyre pulled himself to hands and knees. Blood dripped from his
wounds, bright little puddles formed on the ice-gray stones. His head
tolled.

Hands fell gently upon him. He sat back, leaning into the circle of her
arms. Her hair brushed his face. "You came," she said.

"Are you hurt?" he asked.

"No. There wasn't time. Oh, your poor arm!"

"Can you make some kind of bandage for it? My tee shirt will do."

"It isn't sterile. No, there are antibiotics these days, thank God for
that." She pulled the garment over his head, sawed the seams across on
an edged stone, and ripped it up. He noticed that her dress was gray.
When she looked directly at him, her eyes and blonde hair were the only
color in his world.

"Thank God for you," she added.

Her hands were deft, fashioning a compress and binding it in place. He
kept his head toward the sea, listening. "What is it?" she asked.

"Clayton. Where did he go?"

"Wouldn't he try to escape?"

"If so, fine. I sabotaged his car. Or even if he gets it going, he'll
never make it out of this state. But I'm afraid he realizes as much
himself."

She knelt behind him, where he sat on the ground regaining his breath,
and laid a hand in his hair. She asked steadily: "What will he do?"

"In his place," said Kintyre, "I'd come back and kill us. He should
have done that when he broke free of me, he had the gun. But of course
he was half stunned. Now that he's had a little time to think the
situation over--yes. If he got rid of us, there'd be no witnesses
to prove he hadn't also been kidnaped and was the single fortunate
survivor. The kind of lawyers he can afford would have at least a
chance to brazen out that yarn."

He stood up. "Fade back along the cliff, away from the path," he said.
"Find yourself a sheltered spot and hunker down in it. If you need
help, scream."

"You?" For the first time he heard fear. She stood up, and trembled.

"As I said, he has a gun and he will probably be stalking us, if he
hasn't started yet," Kintyre answered. "I'd better forestall that."

She considered him with a somehow old look.

"All right," she said. "There is no other way. Christ guard you."

She reached up and kissed him, a brief light contact, and walked away.

Kintyre stood thinking of a certain letter. It had been written by
Machiavelli from the farm at San Casciano, after he had gone there
disgraced, tortured, and exiled, with all his work fallen, to dust. He
wrote a friend:

" All my life I have behaved as I chose in love affairs. I let love
do as it likes with me, I have followed it over hill and over vale,
through fields, through woods, and after all I think I have done better
than if I had avoided it. "

You needed a certain courage to be happy.

Kintyre turned and went toward the path. It was a starting point for
his search; Clayton's instinct would have been to bolt. He made no
effort to be still. A snap shot in the fog wouldn't hit him, except by
chance, and his racket would draw attention from Corinna.

Nevertheless, when the fire came, it was shocking. From the sea!

Kintyre whirled and padded toward the water. Clayton must have thought
to circumvent him, wade out and around till he struck the cliff. Or
perhaps he figured to hide among the rocks and--No matter. It was
necessary to get him.

The tide was coming in heavily now. Kintyre saw how the sand gleamed,
even in this sunless air, and then how it was whelmed in foam. Spray
beat his face; he heard a hollow sucking roar among the stones. Where
was Clayton?

Out in the surf, it tongued flame. He saw the beach furrowed beside
him. So--crouched on a rock, approachable only through the water!
Kintyre ran along the shore, trying to get out of visual range before a
bullet smote him. The pursuing shots had a muffled sound.

He entered the water. It was savagely cold. It pulled at his ankles,
sand shifted under the tidal drag. How deep was it where Clayton
laired? Not over a man's height: Clayton was planning to get Corinna
also, he'd have to come back ashore without wetting his gun too much.
Not that a brief soak would disable a well-oiled automatic. But he
would first lure Kintyre to him, if he could. A man struggling through
chest-deep turbulence ought to make an easy target.

Kintyre strained eyes into the fog. He could just see the fortress
rock as a shadow, fifteen feet high at the peak, forty feet long,
Gibraltar-shaped. Breakers hurled against its seaward flank. This was
a rapidly sloping bottom. The depth on Clayton's side was hardly over
four feet, but it might be ten at the western end of the rock.

Kintyre waded straight out until a wave hit him in the face. He kicked
off his shoes and swam.

His bad arm gave him saw-toothed pain and reddened the water. He used
his right, a side stroke. The undertow grabbed him and yanked him
outward. He wrestled to stay afloat. A comber went over him. Briefly he
was in a remembered darkness.

He drank salt fear, threshed to the wave's top, and spun down into the
trough behind it. A chill seething had him. It bawled in his ears. He
knew himself empty of strength and hope.

The sea battered itself upon the earth, recoiled, laughed, and reared
back to gallop in again. It was like the beating of a maul. A ship, a
man, a girl could be crunched between wave and stone until ribs broke
across. Kintyre strangled in a noisy wild night. He was spewed up again
for a moment, scornfully. Spray sheeted in his face. The cold drained
him, he could feel how warmth ran out. The sea rolled him over and
toned in his skull.

Somehow you could swim, he thought. It was only to keep going. Though
all the world were smashed on a reef, you could keep going. And there
could be victory.

He saw the rock face shine before him. The waves pounded him against
its roughness. Fog smoked in his eyes. He let the sea upbear him,
and took its anger, while he fumbled about. His fingers closed on
something, a handhold. His toes sought beneath the surface.

He pulled himself out.

For a little while he lay on the sloping stone back. The tide covered
his feet. Life returned in some measure. He sighed and began to climb.

At the peak he looked over. Clayton sat on a small ledge, four sheer
yards below him. The ruddy hair hung dark, there was blood matting one
side of the long narrow head. Clayton's gun wove about in a seeking
fashion, aimed toward shore and then down again. Once he jerked, making
an odd little whimper like a lost child, and fired. The sound was flat,
nearly lost among rumbling tides.

A twelve-foot jump could easily miss that tiny projection--and once
fallen into the water below, Kintyre would be Clayton's. But so he
would be if he tried to crawl down.

He made his estimates, poised, and sprang.

His feet struck Clayton between the shoulders. They went over together.
It spouted where they hit. A wave swung in from the ocean and climbed
the rock in one white burst.

Kintyre came up. He stood in four feet of water. Clayton was just
arising. Somehow, incredibly, he still had the gun. It lifted, at
point-blank range.

Kintyre's left arm found the power to chop down. The gun was knocked
loose. The sea ate it. Kintyre laid his good hand upon Clayton. Enough.




Produced by Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





                              THE AVALANCHE

                             A MYSTERY STORY 

                           BY GERTRUDE ATHERTON

                                   1919




TO CHARLES HANSON TOWNE




CHAPTER I


I

Price Ruyler knew that many secrets had been inhumed by the earthquake
and fire of San Francisco and wondered if his wife's had been one of
them. After all, she had been born in this city of odd and whispered
pasts, and there were moments when his silent mother-in-law suggested a
past of her own.

That there was a secret of some sort he had been progressively convinced
for quite six months. Moreover, he felt equally sure that this impalpable
gray cloud had not drifted even transiently between himself and his wife
during the first year and a half of their marriage. They had been
uncommonly happy; they were happy yet ... the difference lay not in the
quality of Hélène's devotion, enhanced always by an outspoken admiration
for himself and his achievements, but in subtle changes of temperament
and spirits.

She had been a gay and irresponsible young creature when he married her,
so much so that he had found it expedient to put her on an allowance and
ask her not to ran up staggering bills in the fashionable shops; which
she visited daily, as much for the pleasure of the informal encounter
with other lively and irresponsible young luminaries of San Francisco
society as for the excitement of buying what she did not want.

He had broached the subject with some trepidation, for they had never had
a quarrel; but she had shown no resentment whatever, merely an eager
desire to please him. She even went directly down to the Palace Hotel and
reproached her august parent for failing to warn her that a dollar was
not capable of infinite expansion.

But no wonder she had been extravagant, she told Ruyler plaintively. It
had been like a fairy tale, this sudden release from the rigid
economies of her girlhood, when she had rarely had a franc in her
pocket, and they had lived in a suite of the old family villa on one
of the hills of Rouen, Madame Delano paying her brother for their
lodging, and dressing herself and Hélène with the aid of a half
paralyzed seamstress with a fiery red nose. Ma foi! It was the
nightmare of her youth, that nose and that croaking voice. But the
woman had fingers, and a taste! And her mother could have concocted a
smart evening frock out of an old window curtain.

But the petted little daughter was never asked to go out and buy a spool
of thread, much less was she consulted in the household economies. All
she noticed was that her clothes were smarter than Cousin Marthe's, who
had a real dressmaker, and was subject to fits of jealous sulks. No
wonder that when money was poured into her lap out in this wonderful
California she had assumed that it was made only to spend.

But she would learn! She would learn! She would ask her mother that very
day to initiate her into the fascinating secrets of personal economies,
teach her how to portion out her quarterly allowance between her
wardrobe, club dues, charities, even her private automobile.

This last heroic suggestion was her own, and although her husband
protested he finally agreed; it was well she should learn just what it
cost to be a woman of fashion in San Francisco, and the allowance was
very generous. His old steward, Mannings, ran the household, although as
he went through the form of laying the bills before his little mistress
on the third of every month, she knew that the upkeep of the San
Francisco house and the Burlingame villa ran into a small fortune a year.

"It is not that I am threatened with financial disaster," Ruyler had said
to her. "But San Francisco has not recovered yet, and it is impossible to
say just when she will recover. I want to be absolutely sure of my
expenditures."

She had promised vehemently, and, as far as he knew, she had kept her
promise. He had received no more bills, and it was obvious that her
haughty chauffeur was paid on schedule time, until, seized with another
economical spasm, she sold her car and bought a small electric which she
could drive herself.

Ruyler, little as he liked his mother-in-law, was intensely grateful to
her for the dexterity with which she had adjusted Hélène's mind to the
new condition. She even taught her how to keep books in an elemental way
and balanced them herself on the first of every month. As Hélène Ruyler
had a mind as quick and supple as it was cultivated in  les graces , she
soon ceased to feel the chafing of her new harness, although she did
squander the sum she had reserved for three months mere pocket money upon
a hat; which was sent to the house by her wily milliner on the first day
of the second quarter. She confessed this with tears, and her husband,
who thought her feminine passion for hats adorable, dried her tears and
took her to the opening night of a new play. But he did not furnish the
pathetic little gold mesh bag, and as he made her promise not to borrow,
she did not treat her friends to tea or ices at any of the fashionable
rendezvous for a month. Then her native French thrift came to her aid and
she sold a superfluous gold purse, a wedding present, to an envious
friend at a handsome bargain.

That was ancient history now. It was twenty months since Price had
received a bill, and secret inquiries during the past two had satisfied
him that his wife's name was written in the books of no shop in San
Francisco that she would condescend to visit. Therefore, this maddening
but intangible barrier had nothing to do with a change of habit that had
not caused an hour of tears and sulks. Hélène had a quick temper but a
gay and sweet disposition, normally high spirits, little apparent
selfishness, and a naïve adoration of masculine superiority and strength;
altogether, with her high bred beauty and her dignity in public, an
enchanting creature and an ideal wife for a busy man of inherited social
position and no small degree of pride.

But all this lovely equipment was blurred, almost obscured at times, by
the shadow that he was beginning to liken to the San Francisco fogs that
drifted through the Golden Gate and settled down into the deep hollows of
the Marin hills; moving gently but restlessly even there, like ghostly
floating tides. He could see them from his library window, where he often
finished his afternoon's work with his secretaries.

But the fog drifted back to the Pacific, and the shadow that encompassed
his wife did not, or rarely. It chilled their ardors, even their serene
domesticity. She was often as gay and impulsive as ever, but with abrupt
reserves, an implication not only of a new maturity of spirit, but of
watchfulness, even fear. She had once gone so far as to give voice
passionately to the dogma that no two mortals had the right to be as
happy as they were; then laughed apologetically and "guessed" that the
old Puritan spirit of her father's people was coming to life in her
Gallic little soul; then, with another change of mood, added defiantly
that it was time America were rid of its baneful inheritance, and that
she would be happy to-day if the skies fell to-morrow. She had flung
herself into her husband's arms, and even while he embraced her the eyes
of his spirit searched for the girl wife who had fled and left this more
subtly fascinating but incomprehensible creature in her place.


II

The morning was Sunday and he sat in the large window of his library that
overlooked the Bay of San Francisco. The house, which stood on one of the
highest hills, he had bought and remodeled for his bride. The books that
lined these walls had belonged to his Ruyler grandfather, bought in a day
when business men had time to read and it was the fashion for a gentleman
to cultivate the intellectual tracts of his brain. The portraits that
hung above, against the dark paneling, were the work of his mother's
father, one of the celebrated portrait painters of his time, and were
replicas of the eminent and mighty he had painted. Maharajas, kings,
emperors, famous diplomats, men of letters, artists of his own small
class, statesmen and several of the famous beauties of their brief day;
these had been the favorite grandson's inheritance from Masewell Price,
and they made an impressive frieze, unique in the splendid homes of the
city of Ruyler's adoption.

He had brought them from New York when he had decided to live in
California, and hung them in his bachelor quarters. He had soon made up
his mind that he must remain in San Francisco for at least ten years if
he would maintain the business he had rescued from the disaster of 1906
at the level where he had, by the severest application of his life,
placed it by the end of 1908. Meanwhile he had grown to like San
Francisco better than he would have believed possible when he arrived in
the wrecked city, still smoking, and haunted with the subtle odors of
fires that had consumed more than products of the vegetable kingdom.

The vast ruin with its tottering arches and broken columns, its lonely
walls looking as if bitten by prehistoric monsters that must haunt this
ancient coast, the soft pastel colors the great fire had given as sole
compensation for all it had taken, the grotesque twisted masses of steel
and the aged gray hills that had looked down on so many fires, had
appealed powerfully to his imagination, and made him feel, when wandering
alone at night, as if his brain cells were haunted by old memories of
Antioch when Nature had annihilated in an instant what man had lavished
upon her for centuries. Nowhere, not even in what was left of ancient
Rome, had he ever received such an impression of the age of the world and
of the nothingness of man as among the ruins of this ridiculously modern
city of San Francisco. It fascinated him, but he told himself then that
he should leave it without a pang. He was a New Yorker of the seventh
generation of his house, and the rest of the United States of America was
merely incidental.

The business, a branch of the great New York firm founded in 1840 by an
ancestor grown weary of watching the broad acres of Ruyler Manor
automatically transmute themselves into the yearly rent-roll, and
reverting to the energy and merchant instincts of his Dutch ancestors,
had been conducted skillfully for the thirty years preceding the
disaster by Price's uncle, Dryden Ruyler. But the earthquake and fire in
which so many uninsured millions had vanished, had also wrecked men past
the rebounding age, and Dryden Ruyler was one of them. He might have
borne the destruction of the old business building down on Front Street,
or even the temporary stagnation of trade, but when the Pacific Union
Club disappeared in the raging furnace, and, like many of his old
cronies who had no home either in the country or out in the Western
Addition, he was driven over to Oakland for lodgings, this ghastly
climax of horrors--he escaped in a milk wagon after sleeping for two
nights without shelter on the bare hills behind San Francisco, while the
fire roared its defiance to the futile detonations of dynamite, and his
sciatica was as fiery as the atmosphere--had broken the old man's
spirit, and he had announced his determination to return to
Ruyler-on-Hudson and die as a gentleman should.

There was no question of Price's father, Morgan Ruyler, leaving New
York, even if he had contemplated the sacrifice for a moment; that his
second son and general manager of the several branches of the great
business of Ruyler and Sons--as integral a part of the ancient history
of San Francisco as of the comparatively modern history of New
York--should go, was so much a matter of course that Price had taken the
first Overland train that left New York after the receipt of his uncle's
despairing telegram.

In spite of the fortune behind him and his own expert training, the
struggle to rebuild the old business to its former standard had been
unintermittent. The terrific shock to the city's energies was followed
by a general depression, and the insane spending of a certain class of
San Franciscans when their insurance money was paid, was like a brief
last crackling in a cold stove, and, moreover, was of no help to the
wholesale houses.

But Price Ruyler, like so many of his new associates in like case, had
emerged triumphant; and with the unqualified approval and respect of the
substantial citizens of San Francisco.

It was this position he had won in a community where he had experienced
the unique sensation of being a pioneer in at the rebirth of a great
city, as well as the outdoor sports that kept him fit, that had endeared
California to Ruyler, and in time caused him whimsically to visualize New
York as a sternly accusing instead of a beckoning finger. Long before he
found time to play polo at Burlingame he had conceived a deep respect for
a climate where a man might ride horseback, shoot, drive a racing car, or
tramp, for at least eight months of the year with no menace of sudden
downpour, and hardly a change in the weight of his clothes.

To-day the rain was dashing against his windows and the wind howled about
the exposed angles of his house with that personal fury of assault with
which storms brewed out in the vast wastes of the Pacific deride the
enthusiastic baptism of a too confident explorer. All he could see of the
bay was a mad race of white caps, and dark blurs which only memory
assured him were rocky storm-beaten islands; mountain tops, so geological
tradition ran, whose roots were in an unquiet valley long since dropped
from mortal gaze.

The waves were leaping high against the old forts at the entrance to the
Golden Gate, and occasionally he saw a small craft drift perilously near
to the rocks. But he loved the wild weather of San Francisco, for he was
by nature an imaginative man and he liked to think that he would have
followed the career of letters had not the traditions of the great
commercial house of Ruyler and Sons, forced him to carry on the burden.

The men of his family had never been idlers since the recrudescence of
ancestral energy in the person of Morgan Ruyler I; it was no part of
their profound sense of aristocracy to retire on inherited or invested
wealth; they believed that your fine American of the old stock should die
in harness; and if the harness had been fashioned and elaborated by
ancestors whose portraits hung in the Chamber of Commerce, all the more
reason to keep it spic and up to date instead of letting it lapse into
those historic vaults where so many once honored names lay rotting. They
were a hard, tight-fisted lot, the Ruylers, and Price in one secluded but
cherished wing of his mind was unlike them only because his mother was
the daughter of Masefield Price and would have been an artist herself if
her scandalized husband would have consented. Morgan Ruyler IV had
overlooked his father-in-law's divagation from the orthodox standards of
his own family because he had been a spectacular financial success;
bringing home ropes of enormous pearls from India in addition to the
fantastic sums paid him by enraptured native princes. But while Morgan
Ruyler believed that rich men should work and make their sons work, if
only because an idle class was both out of place in a republic and
conducive to unrest in the masses, it was quite otherwise with women.
They were for men to shelter, and it was their sole duty to be useful in
the home, and, wherever possible, ornamental in public. Nor had he the
least faith in female talent.

Marian Ruyler had yielded the point and departed hopefully for a broader
sphere when her second and favorite son was eight. Morgan Ruyler married
again as soon as convention would permit, this time carefully selecting a
wife of the soundest New York predispositions and with a personal
admiration of Queen Victoria; and he had watched young Price like an
affectionate but inexorable parent hawk until the young man followed his
brother--a quintessential Ruyler--into the now historic firm. However, he
suffered little from anxiety. Price, too, was conservative, intensely
proud of the family traditions, an almost impassioned worker, and
unselfish as men go. Two sons in every generation must enter the firm. It
was not in the Ruyler blood to take long chances.


III

Life out here in California had been too hurried for more than fleeting
moments of self-study, but on this idle Sunday morning Price Ruyler's
perturbed mind wandered to that inner self of his to which he once had
longed to give a freer expression. It was odd that the conservative
training, the rigid traditions of his family, conventional,
old-fashioned, Puritanical, as became the best stock of New York, a stock
that in the Ruyler family had seemed to carry its own antidote for the
poisons ever seeking entrance to the spiritual conduits of the rich, had
left any place for that sentimental romantic tide in his nature which had
swept him into marriage with a girl outside of his own class; a girl of
whose family he had known practically nothing until his outraged father
had cabled to a correspondent in Paris to make investigation of the
Perrin family of Rouen, to which the girl's mother claimed to belong.

The inquiries were satisfactory; they were quite respectable,
bourgeois, silk merchants in a small way--although at least two strata
below that haute bourgeoisie which now regarded itself as the real
upper class of the République Française. A true Ruyler, however, would
have fled at the first danger signal, never have reached the point
where inquiries were in order.

California was replete with charming, beautiful, and superlatively
healthy girls; the climate produced them as it did its superabundance of
fruit, flowers, and vegetables. But they had left Price Ruyler
untroubled. He had been far more interested watching San Francisco rise
from its ruins, transformed almost overnight from a picturesque but
ramshackle city, a patchwork of different eras, into a staid metropolis
of concrete and steel, defiant alike of earthquake and fire. He had liked
the new experience of being a pioneer, which so subtly expanded his
starved ego that he had, by unconscious degrees, made up his mind to
remain out here as the permanent head of the San Francisco House; and in
time, no doubt, marry one of these fine, hardy, frank, out-of-door,
wholly unsubtle California girls. Moreover, he had found in San Francisco
several New Yorkers as well as Englishmen of his own class--notably John
Gwynne, who had thrown over one of the greatest of English peerages to
follow his personal tastes in a legislative career--all of whom had
settled down into that free and independent life from motives not
dissimilar from his own.

But he had ceased to be an untroubled spirit from the moment he met
Hélène Delano. He had gone down to Monterey for polo, and he had
forgotten the dinner to which he had brought a keen appetite, and stared
at her as she entered the immense dining room with her mother.

It was not her beauty, although that was considerable, that had summarily
transposed his gallant if cool admiration for all charming well bred
women into a submerging recognition of woman in particular; it was her
unlikeness to any of the girls he had been riding, dancing, playing golf
and tennis with during the past year and a half (for two years after his
arrival he had seen nothing of society whatever). Later that evening he
defined this dissimilarity from the American girl as the result not only
of her French blood but of her European training, her quiet secluded
girlhood in a provincial town of great beauty, where she had received a
leisurely education rare in the United States, seen or read little of the
great world (she had visited Paris only twice and briefly), her mind
charmingly developed by conscientious tutors. But at the moment he
thought that the compelling power lay in some deep subtlety of eye, her
little air of lofty aloofness, her classic small features in a small
face, and the top-heavy masses of blue black hair which she carried with
a certain naïve pride as if it were her only vanity; in her general
unlikeness to the gray-eyed fair-haired American--a type to which himself
belonged. Her only point in common with this fashionable set patronizing
Del Monte for the hour, was the ineffable style with which she wore her
perfect little white frock; an American inheritance, he assumed after he
knew her; for, as he recalled provincial French women, style was not
their strong point.

When he met her eyes some twenty minutes later, he dismissed the
impression of subtlety, for their black depths were quick with an eager
wonder and curiosity. Later they grew wistful, and he guessed that she
knew none of these smart folk, down, like himself, for the tournament;
people who were chattering from table to table like a large family. That
some of his girl acquaintances were interested in the young stranger he
inferred from speculative and appraising eyes that were turned upon her
from time to time.

Price, with some irony, wondered at their curiosity. The San Francisco
girl, he had discovered, possessed an extra sense all her own. There was
no lofty indifference about her. She had the worth-while stranger
detected and tabulated and his or her social destiny settled before the
Eastern train had disgorged its contents at the Oakland mole. And even
the immense florid mother of this lovely girl, with her own masses of
snow white hair dressed in a manner becoming her age, and a severe gown
of black Chantilly net, relieved by the merest trifle of jet, looked the
reverse of the nondescript tourist. The girl wore white embroidered silk
muslin and a thin gold chain with a small ruby pendant. She was rather
above the average height, although not as tall as her mother, and if she
were as thin as fashion commanded, her bones were so small that her neck
and arms looked almost plump. Her expressive eyes were as black as her
hair, and her only large feature. Her skin was of a quite remarkably pink
whiteness, although there was a pink color in her lips and cheeks. The
older men stared at her more persistently than the younger ones, who
liked their own sort and not girls who looked as if they might be "booky"
and "spring things on a fellow."

There was a ball in the evening and once more mother and daughter sat
apart, while the flower of San Francisco--an inclusive term for the
select circles of Menlo Park, Atherton, Burlingame, San Mateo, far San
Rafael and Belvedere--romped as one great family. Newport, Ruyler
reflected for the twentieth time, did it no better. To the stranger
peering through the magic bars they were now as insensible as befitted
their code. These two people knew nobody and that was the end of it.


IV

But Price noted that now the girl's eyes were merely wistful, and once or
twice he saw them fill with tears. As three of the dowagers merely
sniffed when he sought possible information, he finally had recourse to
the manager of the hotel, D.V. Bimmer. They were a Madame and
Mademoiselle Delano from Rouen, and had been at the hotel for a
fortnight, not seeming to mind its comparative emptiness, but enjoying
the sea bathing and the drives. The girl rode, and went out every morning
with a groom.

"But didn't they bring any letters?" asked Ruyler. "They are ladies and
one letter would have done the business. That poor girl is having the
deuce of a time."

"D.V.," who knew "everybody" in California, and all their secrets, shook
his head. "'Fraid not. The French maid told the floor valet that although
the father was American--from New England somewheres--and the girl born
in California, accidentally as it were, she had lived in France all her
life--she's just eighteen--never crossed the ocean before. Can you beat
it? Until last month, and then they came from Hong Kong--taking a trip
round the world in good old style. The madame, who scarcely opens her
month, did condescend to tell me that she had admired California very
much when she was here before, and intended to travel all over the state.
Perhaps I met her in that far off long ago, for I was managing a hotel in
San Francisco about that time, and her face haunts me somehow--although
when features get all swallowed up by fat like that you can't locate
them. The girl, too, reminds me of some one, but of course she was in
arms when she left and as I ain't much on cathedrals I never went to
Rouen. Of course it's the old trick, bringing a pretty girl to a
fashionable watering place to marry her off, but these folks are not
poor. Not what we'd call rich, perhaps, but good and solid. I don't fall
for the old lady; she's a cool proposition or I miss my guess, but the
girl's all right. I've seen too many girls in this Mecca for adventurous
females and never made a mistake yet. I wish some of our grand dames
would extend the glad hand. But I'm afraid they won't. Terrible
exclusive, this bunch."

Ruyler scowled and walked back to the ballroom. The exclusiveness of this
young society on the wrong side of the continent sometimes made him
homesick and sometimes made him sick. He saw little chance for this poor
girl to enjoy the rights of her radiant youth if her mother had not taken
the precaution to bring letters. France was full of Californians. Many
lived there. Surely she must have met some one she could have made use
of. It was tragic to watch a pathetic young thing staring at two or three
hundred young men and maidens disporting themselves with the natural
hilarity of youth, and but few of them too ill-natured to welcome a young
and lovely stranger if properly introduced.

He experienced a desperate impulse to go up to the mother and offer
her the hospitality of the evening, ask her to regard him as her host.
But Madame Delano had a frozen eye, and no doubt orthodox French ideas
on the subject of young girls. A moment later his eye fell on Mrs.
Ford Thornton.

"Fordy" was many times a millionaire, and his handsome intelligent wife
lived the life of her class. But she was far less conservative than any
woman Price had met in San Francisco. Although she was no longer young he
had more than once detected symptoms of a wild and insurgent spirit, and
an impatient contempt for the routine she was compelled to follow or go
into retirement. She was always leaving abruptly for Europe, and every
once in a while she did something quite uncanonical; enjoying wickedly
the consternation she caused among the serenely regulated, and betraying
to the keen eyes of the New Yorker an ironic appreciation of the immense
wealth which enabled her to do as she chose, answerable to no one. Her
husband was uxorious and she had no children. She had seemed to Price
more restless than usual of late and showing unmistakable signs of abrupt
departure. (He was sure she dusted the soles of her boots as she locked
the door of drawing-room A.) Perhaps to-night she might be in a
schismatic mood.

She was standing apart, a tall, dark, almost fiercely haughty woman, but
dressed with a certain arrogant simplicity, without jewels, her hair in a
careless knot at the base of her head. There were times when she was
impeccably groomed, others when she looked as if an infuriated maid had
left her helpless. She was, as Ruyler well knew, a kind and generous
woman (in certain of her moods), with whom the dastardly cradle fates had
experimented, hoping for high drama when the whip of life snapped once
too often. Perhaps she had found her revenge as well as her consolation
in cheating them.

It was evident to Price that she had been snubbing somebody, for a group
of matrons, flushed and drawn apart, were whispering resentfully. Price
Ruyler stood in no awe of her. He could match her arrogance, and he liked
and admired her more than any of his new friends. They quarreled
furiously but she had never snubbed him.

He walked over to her, his cool gray eyes lit with the pleasure in seeing
her that she had learned to expect. "Good evening, oh, Queen of the
Pacific," he said lightly. "You are looking quite wonderful as usual. Are
you standing alone almost in the middle of the room to emphasize
the--difference?"

"I am in no mood for compliments, satiric or otherwise." She looked him
over with cool penetration. "I may not massage or have my old cuticle
ripped off. If I choose to look my age you must admit that it gives me
one more claim to originality."

"You should have let the world know long since just how original you are,
instead of settling down into the leadership of San Francisco society--"

He enjoyed provoking her. Her dark narrow eyes opened and flashed as they
must have done in their unchastened youth. "Don't dare call me the leader
of this--this!"

"Granted. But the fact remains that your word alone is law. Therefore I
am about to ask you to forget that I am a bungling diplomat and do a kind
act. For once you would be able to be both kind and original."

"I did not know you went in for charities. I am sick of shelling out."

"My only part in charities is shelling out."

"Well, come to the point. What do you want?"

"I want you to go over to that lady--Madame Delano, her name is--sitting
beside that beautiful girl, and introduce yourself and then me. They are
strangers and I'd like to give them a good time."

"How disinterested of you!" She looked the isolated couple over. "The
girl is all right, but I don't like the mother. She is well dressed--oh,
correct from tip to toe--but not quite the lady."

Ruyler's cool insolent gaze swept the dado of amiable overfed ladies who
fanned themselves against the wall.

"None of that! You know that I do not tolerate the New York attitude.
At least we know who ours are; they came into their own respectably,
and with no uncertain touch. Of course it is stupid of them to get fat.
Naturally it makes them look  bourgeoise . But this is a lazy climate.
As to that woman: there is something about her I do not like. She is
aggressively not massaged, not made up. Only a woman of assured
position can afford to be mid-Victorian. It is now quite the smart
thing to make up."

"No doubt her position is assured in her own provincial town. It will be
easy enough to drop her if she doesn't go down. You can't deny that the
girl is all right--and a sweet pathetic figure."

"If the girl marries one of our boys--and no doubt that is what she was
brought here for--we shall not be able to get rid of the mother. We've
tried that and failed."

At that moment Ruyler's eyes met those of the girl. They flashed an
irresistible appeal. He drew a short breath. How different she looked!
She radiated a subtle promise of perfect companionship. Price Ruyler did
what all men will do until the end of time. He made up his mind that he
had found his woman and without vocal assistance.

Mrs. Thornton, who had been watching the unusual mobility of his face,
met his eyes with a satirical smile in her own, her thin red curling lips
drawn almost straight for a moment. She had played with the fancy, before
anger banished it, that if she had been twenty years younger.... Men had
fallen madly in love with her in her own day.... She detected the
symptoms in this man at once. Her savage will compelled her to accept
accumulating years without a concession. But she had forgotten nothing.

Ruyler may have read her thoughts.

"You know," he said, with an attempt at lightness, although the coast
wind tan, which was his only claim to coloring, had paled a little, "that
girl reminds me so much of you that I have made up my mind to marry her.
I don't care who she is. If you don't help me to meet her conventionally
I'll manage somehow, but I should hate to practice any subterfuges on the
woman I intend to make my wife."

For a moment he had the sensation of being pinned to the wall by that
narrow concentrated gaze. Then Mrs. Thornton swung on her heel. "I'll do
it," she said.

She walked across the room with the supple grace her slender figure had
never lost and sat down beside the older woman. In a moment the
astonished dowagers who had "suffered from her fiendish temper all
evening," saw her talking with spontaneous graciousness to both the
strangers. Madame Delano was at first more distant and reserved than Mrs.
Thornton had ever been, manifestly betraying all the suspicion and
unsocial instincts of her class; but she thawed, and the two women
chatted, while once more the girl's eyes wandered to the dancers.

When Mrs. Thornton had tormented Ruyler for quite fifteen minutes she
beckoned to him imperiously. A moment later he was whirling the girl down
the ball room and thrilling at her contact.


V

The wooing had been as headlong as his falling in love. Hélène Delano had
a deep sweet voice, which completed the conquest during the hour they
spent in the grounds under the shelter of a great palm, until hunted down
by a horrified parent.

Hélène talked frankly of her life. Her mother had been visiting relatives
in a small New England town--Holbrook Centre, she believed it was called,
but hard American names did not cling to her memory--she loved the soft
Latin and Indian names in California--and there she had met and married
her father, James Delano. They were on their way to Japan when business
detained him in San Francisco much longer than he had expected and she
was born. She believed that he had owned a ranch that he wanted to sell.
He died on the voyage across the Pacific and her mother had returned to
live among her own people in Rouen--very plain bourgeois, but of a
respectability, Oh, là! là!

"But it was a tiresome life for a young girl with American blood in her,
monsieur." Her mother's income from her husband's estate was not large,
but they lived in a wing of the old house and were very comfortable. From
her window there was a lovely view of the Seine winding off to Paris.
"Oh, monsieur, how I used to long to go to Paris! America was too far. I
never even dreamed of it. But Paris! And only two little glimpses of
it--the last when we spent a fortnight there before sailing, to get me
some nice frocks...."

She had studied hard--but hard! She knew four languages, she told Ruyler
proudly. "I had no  dot  then, you see. It was possible I might have to
teach one day. A governess in England, Oh, là! là!"

But six months ago a good old uncle had died and left them some money.
She would have a little  dot  now, and they could travel. Maman said she
would not have a large enough  dot  to make a fine marriage in France,
but that the English and American men were more romantic. They went first
to the Orient, as there were many Englishmen of good family to be met
there. "But maman is difficult to please," she added with her enchanting
artlessness, "as difficult as I myself, monsieur. I wish to fall in love
like the American girls. Maman says it is not necessary, but I am half
American, so, why not? There was an English gentleman with a nice title
in Hong Kong and maman was quite pleased with him until she discovered
that he gambled or did something equally horrid and she bought our
tickets for San Francisco right away."

Yes, she was enjoying her travels, but she was a little lonesome; in
Rouen at least she had her cousins. For the first time in her life she
was talking to a young man alone; even on the steamer she was not
permitted to speak to any of the nice young men who looked as if they
would like her if only maman would relent.

"In our ugly old rooms in Rouen maman cherished me like some rare little
flower in an old earthen pot," she added quaintly. "Now the pot has
tinsel and tissue paper round it, but until to-night I have felt as if I
might just as well be an old cabbage."

But it had been heaven to dance with a young man who was not a cousin;
and to sit out alone with him in the moonlight, Oh,  grace à Dieu !

Traveling she had read modern novels for the first time. There were many
in the ship's library, oh, but dozens! and she knew now how American and
English girls enjoyed life. Her mother had been ill nearly all the way
over. She had given her word not to speak to any one, but maman had been
ignorant of the library replete with the novelists of the day, and
although she was not untruthful,  enfin , she saw no reason to ask her
too anxious parent for another prohibition and condemn herself to yawn
at the sea.

Ruyler proposed at the end of a week. She was the only really innocent,
unspoiled, unselfconscious girl he had ever met, almost as old-fashioned
as his great grandmother must have been. Not that he set forth her
virtues to bolster his determination to marry a girl of no family even in
her own country; he was madly in love, and life without her was
unthinkable; but he tabulated the thousand points to her credit for the
benefit of his outraged father.

He did not pretend to like Madame Delano. She was a hard, calculating,
sordid old bourgeoisie, but when he refused the little  dot  she would
have settled upon Hélène, he knew that he had won her friendship and that
she would give him no trouble. She was not a mother-in-law to be ashamed
of, for her manners were coldly correct, her education in youth had
evidently been adequate, and in her obese way she was imposing. She gave
him to understand that she had no more desire to live with her son-in-law
than he with her, and established herself in a small suite in the Palace
Hotel. After a "lifetime" in a provincial town, economizing mercilessly,
she felt, she remarked in one of her rare expansive moments, that she had
earned the right to look on at life in a great hotel.

The rainy season she spent in Southern California, moving from one large
hotel crowded with Eastern visitors to another. This uncommon
self-indulgence and her devotion to Hélène were the only weak spots
Ruyler was able to discover in that cast-iron character. She seldom
attended the brilliant entertainments of her daughter and refused the
endowed car offered by her son-in-law. Hélène married to the best  parti 
in San Francisco and quite happy, she seemed content to settle down into
the role of the onlooker at the kaleidoscope of life. She spent eight
hours of the day and evening seated in an arm chair in the court of the
Palace Hotel, and for air rode out to the end of the California Street
car line, always on the front seat of the dummy. She was dubbed a "quaint
old party" by her new acquaintances and left to her own devices. If she
didn't want them they could jolly well do without her.


VI

Hélène's social success was immediate and permanent. Californians rarely
do things by halves. Society was no exception. She had "walked off" with
the most desirable man in town, but they were good gamblers. When they
lost they paid. She had married into "their set." They had accepted her.
She was one of them. No secret order is more loyal to its initiates.

During that first year and a half of ideal happiness Ruyler, in what
leisure he could command, found Hélène's rapidly expanding mind as
companionable as he had hoped; and the girlish dignity she never lost,
for all her naiveté and vivacity, gratified his pride and compelled, upon
their second brief visit to New York, even the unqualified approval of
his family.

She had inherited all the subtle adaptability of her father's race,
nothing of the cold and rigid narrowness of her mother's class. Price had
feared that her lively mind might reveal disconcerting shallows, but
these little voids were but the divine hiatuses of youth. He sometimes
wondered just how strong her character was. There were times when she
showed a pronounced inclination for the line of least resistance ... but
her youth ... her too sheltered bringing up ... those drab cramped
years ... no wonder....

He was glad on the whole that his was the part to mold. Nevertheless, he
had his inconsistencies. Unlike many men of strong will and driving
purpose he liked strength of character and pronounced individuality in
women; and he, too, had had fleeting visions of what life might have been
had Flora Thornton entered life twenty years later. He had been quite
sincere in telling her that the young stranger reminded him of the most
powerful personality he had met in California, and he believed that
within a reasonable time Hélène would be as variously cultivated, as
widely, if less erratically developed. But was there any such insurgent
force in her depths? It was not within the possibilities that at any time
in her life Flora Thornton had been pliable.

A man had little time to study his wife in California these days. Or at
any time? He sometimes wondered. Certainly happy marriages were rare and
divorces many. Fine weather nearly all the year round played the deuce
with domesticity, and his business could not be neglected for the long
vacation abroad to which they both had looked forward so ardently.

Sometimes, even before this vague gray mist had risen between them, he
had had moments of wondering whether he knew his wife at all. How could a
man know a woman who did not yet know herself? He sighed and wished he
had more time to explore the uncharted seas of a woman's soul.

But the cause of the change in her was something far less picturesque,
something concrete and sinister. He felt sure of that....


VII

Unless--but that was ridiculous! Impossible!

He sprang to his feet, incredulous, disgusted at the mere thought.

But why not? She was very young, and older and wiser women were afflicted
with inconsistencies, little tenacious desires and vanities never quite
to be grasped by the elemental male.

He went over to a bookcase containing heavy works of reference and
pressed his index finger into the molding. It swung outward, revealing
the door of a safe. He manipulated the combination, took from a drawer of
the interior a box, opened it and stared at a magnificent Burmah ruby. It
was or had been a royal jewel, presented to Masewell Price by one of the
great princes of India whose portrait he had painted. The pearls had all
been captured long since by Price's sisters and by Morgan V. for his
wife; but this ruby his mother had given him as she lay dying. She had
bidden him leave it in his father's safe until he was out of college, and
then keep it as closely in his personal possession as possible. It would
be turned over to him with the rest of his private fortune.

"Never let any woman wear it," she had whispered. "It brings luck to men
but not to women. Nothing could have affected my luck one way or the
other--I was born to have nothing I wanted, but you, dear little boy.
Keep it for your luck and in a safe place, but near you."

He had looked back upon this scene as he grew older as the mere
expression of a whim of dissolution, but it had made so deep an
impression upon him at the time that insensibly the words sank into his
plastic mind creating a superstition that refused to yield to reason. The
ruby was Hélène's birthstone and she was passionately fond of it. She had
begged and coaxed to wear this jewel, and upon one occasion had stamped
her little foot and sulked throughout the evening. He had given her a
ruby bar, had the clasp of her pearl necklace set with rabies, and last
Christmas had presented her with a small but fine "pigeon blood"
encircled with diamonds. These had enraptured her for the moment, but she
had always circled back to the historic stone, over which her indulgent
husband was so unaccountably obstinate.

Until lately. He recalled that for several months she had not mentioned
it. Could she have been indulging in a prolonged attack of interior
sulks, which affected her spirits, dimmed her radiant personality? He
abominated the idea but admitted the possibility. She would not be the
first person to be the victim of a secret but furious passion for jewels.
He recalled a novel of Hichens; not the matter but the central idea.
Authors of other races had used the same motive. Well, if his wife had an
abnormal streak in her the sooner he found out the truth the better.

He closed the door of the safe, swung the bookcase into place, slipped
the ruby with its curious gold chain that looked massive but hardly
weighed an ounce, into his pocket, rang for a servant and told him to ask
Mrs. Ruyler to come down to the library as soon as she was dressed.




CHAPTER II


I

Ruyler sighed as he heard his wife walk down the hall. There had been a
time when she came running like a child at his summons, but in these days
she walked with a leisurely dignity which to his possibly morbid ear
betrayed a certain crab-like disposition in her little high heels to slip
backward along the polished floor.

She came in smiling, however, and kissed him quickly and warmly. Her
extraordinary hair hung down in two long braids, their blue blackness
undulating among the soft folds of her thin pink negligée. For the first
time Ruyler realized that pink was Hélène's favorite color; she seldom
wore anything else except white or black, and then always relieved with
pink. And why not, with that deep pink blush in her white cheeks, and the
velvet blackness of her eyes? People still raved over Hélène Ruyler's
"coloring," and Price told himself once more as she stood before him, her
little head dragged back by the weight of her plaits, her slender throat
crossed by a narrow line of black velvet, that he had married one of the
most beautiful girls he had ever seen.

He was seized with a sudden sharp pang of jealousy and caught her in his
arms roughly, his gray eyes almost as black as hers.

"Tell me," he exclaimed, and the new fear almost choked him, "does any
other man interest you--the least little bit?"

She stared at him and then burst into the most natural laugh he had heard
from her for months. "That is simply too funny to talk about."

"But I am able to give you so little of my time. Working or tired out at
night--letting you go out so much alone--but I haven't the heart to
insist that you yawn over a book, while I am shut up here, or too fagged
to talk even to you. Life is becoming a tragedy for business men--if
they've got it in them to care for anything else."

"Well, don't add to the tragedy by cultivating jealousy. I've told you
that I am perfectly willing to give up Society and sit like Dora holding
your pens--or filling your fountain pen--no, you dictate. What chance has
a woman in a business man's life?"

"None, alas, except to look beautiful and be happy. Are you that?--the
last I mean, of course!"

She nestled closer to him and laughed again. "More so than ever. To be
frank you have completed my happiness by being jealous. I have wondered
sometimes if it were a compliment--your being so sure of me."

"That's my idea of love."

"Well, it's mine, too. But if you want me to stay home--"

"Oh, no! You are fond of society? Really, I mean? Why shouldn't you
be?--a young thing--"

"What else is there? Of course, I should enjoy it much more if you were
always with me. Shall we never have that year in Europe together?"

"God knows. Something is wrong with the world. It needs
reorganizing--from the top down. It is inhuman, the way even rich men
have to work--to remain rich! But sit down."

He led her over to a chair before the window. The storm was decreasing in
violence, the heavy curtain of rain was no longer tossed, but falling in
straight intermittent lines, and the islands were coming to life. Even
the high and heavy crest of Mount Tamalpais was dimly visible.

"It is the last of the storms, I fancy. Spring is overdue," said Price,
who, however, was covertly watching his wife's face. Her color had faded
a little, her lids drooped over eyes that stared out at the still
turbulent waters.

"I love these San Francisco storms," she said abruptly. "I am so glad we
have these few wild months. But Mrs. Thornton has worried and so have we.
Her fête at San Mateo comes off on the fourteenth, the first
entertainment she has given since her return, and it would be ghastly if
it rained. It should be a wonderful sight--those grounds--everybody in
fancy dress with little black velvet masks. Don't you think you can go?"

"The fourteenth? I'll try to make it. Who are you to be?"

"Beatrice d'Este--in a court gown of black tissue instead of velvet, with
just a touch of pink--oh, but a wonderful creation! I designed it myself.
We are not bothering too much about historical accuracy."

"How would you like this for the touch of pink!" He took the immense ruby
from his pocket and tossed it into her lap.

For a moment she stared at it with expanding eyes, then gave a
little shriek of rapture and flung herself into his arms, the child
he had married.

"Is it true? But true? Shall I wear this wonderful thing? The women will
die of jealousy. I shall feel like an empress--but more, more, I shall
wear this lovely thing--I, I, Hélène Ruyler, born Perrin, who never had a
franc in her pocket in Rouen! Price! Have you changed your mind--but no!
I cannot believe it."

That was it then! He watched her mobile face sharply. It expressed
nothing but the excited rapture of a very young woman over a magnificent
toy. There was none of the morbid feverish passion he had dreadfully
anticipated. His spirits felt lighter, although he sighed that a bauble,
even if it were one of the finest of its kind in the world, should have
projected its sinister shadow between them. It had a wicked history. But
Hélène saw no shadows. She held it up to the light, peered into it as it
lay half concealed in the cup of her slender white hands, fondled it
against her cheek, hung the chain about her neck.

"How I have dreamed of it," she murmured. "How did you come to change
your mind?"

"I thought it a pity such a fine jewel should live forever in a safe; and
it will become you above all women. Nature must have had you in her eye
when she designed the ruby. I had a sudden vision ... and made up my mind
that you should wear it the first time I was able to take you to a party.
I must keep the letter of my promise."

"And I can only wear it when you are with me?"

"I am afraid so."

"I'm you, if there is anything in the marriage ceremony." Then she kissed
him impulsively. "But I won't be a little pig. And I can tell everybody
between now and the Thornton fête that I am going to wear it, and I can
think and dream of my triumph meanwhile. But why didn't you let me know
you were down? It is Sunday, our only day. I overslept shockingly. I
didn't get home till two."

"Two? Do you dance until two every night?"

"What else? They lead such a purposeless life out here. We sometimes have
classes--but they don't last long. I have almost forgotten that I once
had a serious mind. But what would you? It is either society or suffrage.
I won't be as serious as that yet. I mean to be young--but young! for
five more years. Then I shall become a 'leader,' or vote for the
President, or ride on a float in a suffrage parade dressed as the Goddess
of Liberty, with my hair down."

He laughed, more and more relieved. "Yes, please remain young until you
are twenty-five. By that time I hope the world will have adjusted itself
and I shall have the leisure to companion you. Meanwhile, be a child. It
is very refreshing to me. Come. I must lock this thing up. I have an
interview here with Spaulding in about ten minutes."

She gave it up reluctantly, kissing it much as she had kissed him during
their engagement; warm, lingering, but almost impersonal kisses. The ruby
seemed miraculously to have restored her beaten youth.

She sat on the edge of a chair as he opened the safe and placed the jewel
in its box and drawer.

"There is one other thing I wanted to ask," he said as he rose. "Is your
allowance sufficient? It has sometimes occurred to me that you wanted
more--for some feminine extravagance."

The light went out of her face. He wondered whimsically if he had locked
it in with the ruby, and once more he was conscious that something
intangible floated between them. But she looked at him squarely with her
shadowed eyes.

"Oh, one could spend any amount, of course, but I really have
quite enough."

"You shall have double your present allowance when these cursed times
improve. And I have always intended to settle a couple of hundred
thousand on you--a quarter of a million--as soon as I could realize
without loss on certain investments. But one day I want you to be quite
independent."

Her eyes had opened very wide. "A quarter of a million? And it would be
all my own? I could do anything with it I liked?"

"Well--I think I should put it in trust. I haven't much faith in the
resistance of your sex to tempting investments promising a high rate of
interest."

"I have heard you say that when rich men die the amount of worthless
stock found in their safe deposit boxes passes belief."

"Quite true. But that is hardly an argument in favor of trusting an even
more inexperienced sex with large sums of money."

She laughed, but less naturally than when he had been seized with an
unwonted spasm of jealousy. "You will always get the best of me in an
argument," she said with her exquisite politeness. "Really, I think I
love being wholly dependent upon you. Here comes your detective. What
a bore. But at least we lunch together if we do have company. And
thank you, thank you a thousand times for promising I shall wear the
ruby at last."

She slipped her hand into his for a second, then left the room, smiling
over her shoulder, as the locally celebrated "Jake" Spaulding entered.
Both Ruyler and his general manager had thought it best to have their
cashier watched. There were rumors of gambling and other road house
diversions, and they proposed to save their man to the firm, if possible;
if not, to discharge him before he followed the usual course and involved
Ruyler and Sons in the loss of thousands they could ill afford to spare.




CHAPTER III


I

On the following day Ruyler, who had looked upon the whirlwind of passion
that had swept him into a romantic and unworldly marriage, as likely to
remain the one brief drama of his prosaic business man's life, began
dimly to apprehend that he was hovering on the edge of a sinister and
complicated drama whose end he could as little foresee as he could escape
from the hand of Fate that was pushing him inexorably forward. When Fate
suddenly begins to take a dramatic interest in a man whose course has run
like a yacht before a strong breeze, she precipitates him toward one half
crisis after another in order to confuse his mental powers and render him
wholly a puppet for the final act. These little Earth histrionics are
arranged no doubt for the weary gods, who hardly brook a mere mortal
rising triumphantly above the malignant moods of the master playwright.

He lunched at the Pacific Union Club and caught the down-town California
Street cable car as it passed, finding his favorite seat on the left side
of the "dummy" unoccupied. He was thinking of Hélène, a little
disappointed, but on the whole vastly relieved, congratulating himself
that, no longer haunted, he could give his mind wholly to the important
question of the merger he contemplated with a rival house that had limped
along since the disaster, but had at last manifested its willingness to
accept the offer of Ruyler and Sons.

It was a moment before he realized that his mother-in-law occupied the
front seat across the narrow space, and even before he recognized that
large bulk, he had registered something rigid and tense in its muscles;
strained in its attitude. When he raised his eyes to the face he found
himself looking at the right cheek instead of the left, and it was
pervaded by a sickly green tint quite unlike Madame Delano's florid
color. She was listening to a man who sat just behind her on the long
seat that ran the length of the dummy. Although the day was clear, there
was still a sharp wind and no one else sat outside.

Ruyler knew the man by sight. Before the fire he had owned some of the
most disreputable houses in the district the car would pass on its way to
the terminus. The buildings were uninsured, and he had made his living
since as a detective. Even his political breed had gone out of power in
the new San Francisco, but he was well equipped for a certain type of
detective work. He had a remarkable memory for faces and could pierce any
disguise, he was as persistent as a ferret, and his knowledge of the
underworld of San Francisco was illimitable. But his chief assets were
that he looked so little like a detective, and that, so secretive were
his methods, his calling was practically unknown. He had set up a cheap
restaurant with a gambling room behind at which the police winked,
although pretending to raid him now and again. He was a large soft man
with pendulous cheeks streaked with red, a predatory nose, and a black
overhanging mustache. His name was 'Gene Bisbee, and there was a
tradition that in his younger days he had been handsome, and irresistible
to the women who had made his fortune.

Ruyler was absently wondering what his haughty mother-in-law could have
to say to such a man when to his amazement Bisbee planted his elbow in
the pillow of flesh just below Madame Delano's neck, and said easily:

"Oh, come off, Marie. I'd know you if you were twenty years older and
fifty pounds heavier--and that's going some. Bimmer and two or three
others are not so sure--won't bet on it--for twenty years, and, let me
see--you weighed about a hundred and thirty-five--perfect figger--in the
old days. Must weigh two seventy-five now. That makes one forty-five
pounds extra. Well, that and time, and white hair, would change pretty
near any woman, particularly one with small features. You look a real old
lady, and you can't be mor'n forty-five. How did you manage the white
hair? Bleach?"

Ruyler felt his heart turn over. The frozen blood pounded in his brain
and distended his own muscles, his mouth unclosed to let his breath
escape. Then he became aware that the woman had recovered herself and
moved forward, displacing the familiar elbow. She turned imperiously to
the motorman.

"Stop at the corner," she said. "And if this man attempts to follow me
please send back a policeman. He is intoxicated."

The car stopped at the corner of the street opposite the site of the
old Saint Mary's Cathedral, a street where once had been that row of
small and evil cottages where French women, painted, scantily dressed
in a travesty of the evening gown, called to the passer-by through the
slats of old-fashioned green shutters. That had been before Ruyler's
day, but he knew the history of the neighborhood, and this man's
interest in it. He was not surprised to hear Bisbee laugh aloud as
Madame Delano, who stepped off the car with astonishing agility,
waddled down the now respectable street. But she held her head
majestically and did not look back.

Ruyler squared his back lest the man, glancing over, recognize him. That
would be more than he could bear. As the car reached Front Street he
sprang from the dummy and walked rapidly north to Ruyler and Sons. He
locked himself in his private office, dismissing his stenographer with
the excuse that he had important business to think out and must not be
disturbed.


II

But business was forgotten. He was as nearly in a state of panic as was
possible for a man of his inheritance and ordered life. He belonged to
that class of New Yorker that looked with cold disgust upon the women of
commerce. So far as he knew he had never exchanged a word with one of
them, and had often listened with impatience to the reminiscences of his
San Francisco friends, now married and at least intermittently decent, of
the famous ladies who once had reigned in the gay night life of San
Francisco.

And his mother-in-law! The mother of his wife!

Her name was Marie. In that chaos of flesh an interested eye might
discover the ruins of beauty. Her hair, he knew, had been black. He
recalled the terror expressed in every line of that mountainous
figure--which may well have been perfect twenty years ago. The green
pallor of her cheek! And he had long felt, rather than knew, that she
possessed magnificent powers of bluff. Her dignified exit had been no
more convincing to him than to Bisbee.

He went back over the past and recalled all he knew of the woman whose
daughter he had married. She had visited the United States about
twenty-one years ago, met and married Delano, and remained in San
Francisco two or three months on their way to Japan. Delano had died on
the voyage across the Pacific, been buried at sea, and his widow had
returned to her family in Rouen and settled down in her brother's
household.

This was practically all he knew, for it was all that Hélène knew, and
Madame Delano never wasted words. It had not occurred to him to question
her. Their status in Rouen was established, and if not distinguished it
was indubitably respectable and not remotely suggestive of mystery.

Price, convinced that Hélène's father must have been a gentleman,
recalled that he had asked her one day to tell him something of the
Delanos, but his wife had replied vaguely that she believed her
mother had been too sad to talk about him for a long while, and then
probably had got out of the habit. She knew nothing more than she
already had told him.

It came back to him, however, that several times his wife's casual
references to the past, and particularly regarding her parents, had not
dove-tailed, but that he had dismissed the impression; attributing it to
some lapse in his own attention. He had a bad habit of listening and
thinking out a knotty business problem at the same time. And there is a
curious inhibition in loyal minds which forbids them to put two and two
together until suspicion is inescapably aroused.

He had a very well ordered mind, furnished with innumerable little pigeon
holes, which flew open at the proper vibration from his admirable memory.
He concentrated this memory upon a little bureau of purely personal
receptacles and before long certain careless phrases of his wife stood in
a neat row.

She had mentioned upon one occasion that she thought she must have been
about five when she arrived in Rouen, and remembered her first impression
of the Cathedral as well as the boats on the Seine at night. And Cousin
Pierre had taken her up the river one Sunday to the church on the height
which had been built for a statue of the Virgin that had been excavated
there, and bade her kneel and pray at this station for what she wished
most. She had prayed for a large wax doll that said papa and mama, and
behold, it had arrived the next day.

Madame Delano had told him unequivocally that she had gone directly to
Rouen after her husband's death ... but again, although Hélène
remembered arriving in Rouen with her mother, she must have been left
for a time elsewhere, for Hélène had another memory--of a convent, where
she had tarried for what seemed a very long time to her childish mind.
Could she have been sent to a convent from the house in Rouen when she
was so little that her memories of that first sojourn were confused? And
why? The family had apparently been fond of "la petite Americaine," and
even if her devoted mother had been obliged to leave her for several
years it is doubtful if they would have sent so young a child to a
convent. Rack his memory as he would he could recall no allusion to such
a journey, to any separation between mother and child after they were
established in Rouen.

But he did remember one of Madame Delano's few references to the past,
which might suggest that she had left the child somewhere while she went
home to make peace with her family to get her bearings. Her brother had
not approved of her marrying an American. "But," she had added
graciously, "you see I had no such prejudice. Neither now nor then. James
was the best of husbands."

"James!" "Jim."

He had heard the name Jim as he boarded the dummy, uttered in extremely
familiar accents; by Bisbee, of course. Yes, and something else. "We all
felt bad when he croaked."

His feverishly alert memory darted to another pigeon hole and exhumed
another treasure. Some ten or twelve months ago he had been obliged to go
to a northern county on business that involved buying up smaller
concerns, and would keep him away for a fortnight or more. He had taken
Hélène, and as they were motoring through one of the old towns she had
leaned forward with a little gasp exclaiming:

"How exactly like! If I didn't know that I had never been in California
before except merely to be born here I could vow that is where I lived
with the dear nuns."

He had asked idly: "Where was your convent?" and she had shaken her head.
"Maman says I never was in a convent, that I dreamed it." She had lifted
to Ruyler a puzzled face. "I remember she punished me once, when I was
about seven and persisted in talking about the convent--I suppose I had
forgotten it for a time in the new life, and something brought it back to
me. But it is the most vivid memory of my childhood. Do you think I could
have been one of those uncanny children that live in a dream world? I
hope not. I like to think I am quite normal and full to the brim of
common sense." He had laughed and told her not to worry. He had lived in
a dream world himself when he was little.

The conviction grew upon him as he sat there that Hélène had spent the
first five years of her life at the Ursuline Convent in St. Peter. What
had her mother--young and beautiful--been doing during those years, the
years of a mother's most anxious devotion and pleasurable interest? He
searched his memory for Club reminiscences of a Marie Delano of twenty
years earlier, or less. No such name rewarded his mental explorations,
and Marie Delano was not a name likely to escape.

He exclaimed aloud at his stupidity. The astute French woman was hardly
likely to return to the scene of her former triumphs with an innocent
young daughter and an infamous name. Nor, apparently, had she carried it
to Rouen after she had manifestly foresworn vice for the sake of her
child, even to the length of resigning herself to the dullness of a
provincial town.

But "Jim"? Her husband? Could Bisbee have referred to some other Jim who
had "croaked" recently? Such women have more than one Jim in their
voluminous lives.

Ruyler had that order of mental temperament to which dubiety is the
one unendurable condition; he had none of that cowardice which
postpones an unpleasant solution until the inevitable moment. Whatever
this hideous mystery he would solve it as quickly as possible and then
put it out of his life. Beyond question poor Hélène was the victim of
blackmail; that was the logical explanation of her ill-concealed
anxiety--misery, no doubt!

He wished she had had the courage to come directly to him, but it was
idle to expect the resolution of a woman of thirty in a child of twenty.
It was apparent that she had even tried to shield her mother, for that
Madame Delano had been caught unaware to-day was indisputable.

What incredible impudence--or courage?--to return here! There were other
resorts in the South and on the Eastern Coast where a pretty girl might
reap the harvest of innocent and lovely youth.

Once more his mind abruptly focused itself.

Shortly after his marriage Madame Delano had asked him casually if he
could inform her as to the reliability of a certain firm of lawyers,
Lawton, Cross and Co. She "thought of buying a ranch," and the firm had
been suggested to her by some one or other of these rich people. She also
wished to make a will.

He had replied as casually that it was a leading firm, and forgotten the
incident promptly. He recalled now that several times he had seen his
mother-in-law coming out of the Monadnock Building, where this firm had
its offices. He had upon one occasion met her in the lift and she had
explained with unaccustomed volubility that she was still thinking of
buying a ranch, possibly in Napa County. She understood that quite a
fortune might be made in fruit, and it would be a diverting interest for
her old age. Possibly she might encourage a favorite nephew to come out
and help her run it.

Ruyler, who had been absorbed in his own affairs and hated the sight of
any woman during business hours, had felt like telling her that if she
wanted to sink her money in a ranch, that was as good a way to get rid of
it as any, but had merely nodded and left the elevator. He was not the
man to give any one unasked advice and be snubbed for his pains.

If "Jim" was her husband and had "croaked" some two years since, what
more natural than that she had been obliged to come to California and
settle his estate? Lawton and Cross would keep her secret, as California
lawyers, with or without blackmail, had kept many others; perhaps she was
an old friend of Lawton's. He had been a "bird" in his time.

Undoubtedly this was the solution. Otherwise she never would have risked
the return to San Francisco, even with her changed appearance.


III

It was time to dismiss speculation and proceed to action. He rang up
detective headquarters and asked Jake Spaulding to come to him at once.

Spaulding began: "But the matter ain't ripe yet, boss. Nothin' doin'
last night--"

But Ruyler cut him short. "Please come immediately--no, not here. Meet me
at Long's."

He left the building and walked rapidly to a well-known bar where
estimable citizens, even when impervious to the seductions of cocktail
and highball, often met in private soundproof rooms to discuss momentous
deals, or invoke the aid of detectives whose appearance in home or office
might cause the wary bird to fly away.

The detective did not drink, so Ruyler ordered cigars, and a few moments
later Spaulding strolled in. His physical movements always belied his
nervous keen face. He was the antithesis of 'Gene Bisbee. All honest men
compelled to have dealings with him liked and trusted him. A rich man
could confide a disgraceful predicament to his keeping without fear of
blackmail, and a poor man, if his cause were interesting, might command
his services with a nominal fee. He loved the work and regarded himself
as an artist, inasmuch as he was exercising a highly cultivated gift, not
merely pursuing a lucrative profession. He sometimes longed, it is true,
for worthier objects upon which to lavish this gift, and he found them a
few years later when the world went to war. He was one of the most
valuable men in the Federal Secret Service before the end of 1915.

"What's up?" he asked, as he took possession of the most comfortable
chair in the little room and lit a cigar. "You look as if you hadn't
slept for a week, and you were lookin' fine yesterday."

"Do you mind if I only half confide in you? It's a delicate matter. I'd
like to ask you a few questions and may possibly ask you to find the
answer to several others."

"Fire away. Curiosity is not my vice. I'll only call for a clean breast
if I find I can't work in the dark."

"Thanks. Do--do you remember any woman of the town named--Marie Delano?"
He swallowed hard but brought it out. "Who may have flourished here
fifteen or twenty years ago?"

Spaulding knew that Ruyler's wife had been named Delano, but he refrained
from whistling and fixed his sharp honest blue eyes on the opposite wall.

"Nope. Sounds fancy enough, but she was no Queen of the Red Light
District in S.F."

"I was convinced she could not have been known under that name. Do you
know of any woman of that sort who was married--possibly--to a man whose
first name was James--Jim--and who left abruptly, while she was still
young and handsome, just about fifteen years ago?"

"Lord, that's a poser! Do you mean to say she married and retired--landed
some simp? They do once in a while. Could tell you queer things about
certain ancestries in this old town."

"No--I don't think that was it. I have reason to think she had been
married for at least six years before she left. Can't you think of any
Marie who was married to a Jim--in--in that class of life?"

"I was pretty much of a kid fifteen years ago, but I can recall quite a
few Maries and even more Jims. But the Jims were much too wary to marry
the Maries. Try it again, partner. Let us approach from another angle.
What did your Marie look like?"

"She must have been tall--uncommonly tall--with black hair and small
features; black eyes that must have been large at that time.
I--I--believe she had a very fine figure."

"What nationality?"

"French."

The detective recrossed his legs. "French. Oh, Lord! The town was fairly
overrun with them. Made you think there was nothing in all this talk
about gay Paree. All the ladybirds seemed to have taken refuge here. You
have no idea of her last name!"

"It might have been Perrin."

"Never. Not after she got here and set up in business. More likely
Lestrange or Delacourt--"

"Was there a Delacourt?"

"Not that I remember. I don't see light anywhere. Of course it won't take
me twenty-four hours to get hold of the history and appearance of every
queen who was named Marie fifteen years ago, and your description helps a
lot. Records were burned, but some of the older men on the force are
walking archives. For the matter of that you might draw out some old
codger in your club and get as much as I can give you--"

"Rather not! I think I'll have to give you my confidence."

"Much the shortest and straightest route. Just fancy you're takin' a
nasty dose of medicine for the good of your health. I guess this is a
case where I can't work in the dark."

"Have you ever noticed an elderly woman, seated in the court of the
Palace Hotel--immensely stout?"

"I should say I had. One of the sights of S.F. Why--of course--she's your
mother-in-law!"

"Has there been any talk about her!"

"Some comment on her size. And her childlike delight in watchin'
the show."

"Nothing else? No one has claimed to recognize her?"

Spaulding sat up straight, his nose pointing. "Recognize her? What
d'you mean?"

"I mean that I overheard a conversation--one-sided--to-day on the
California Street dummy, in which Bisbee accused Madame Delano
practically of what I have told you. At least that is the way I
interpreted it. He called her Marie, alluded in an unmistakable manner to
a disgraceful past in which he had known her intimately, and was
confident that he recognized her in spite of her flesh and white hair. I
am positive that she recognized him, although she was clever enough not
to reply."

"Jimminy! The plot thickens. That scoundrel never forgot a face in his
life. I don't train with him--not by a long sight--so if there's been any
talk in his bunch, I naturally wouldn't have heard it. You say her name
is Marie now?"

"Yes."

"And Perrin is her real name?"

"She comes of a well-known family of Rouen of that name. She lived there
with her child for at least thirteen years before her return to
California. Of that I am certain. Her daughter is now twenty. I wish to
know where she kept that child during the first five years of its life. I
have reason to think it was in the Ursuline Convent at St. Peter."

"That's easy settled. And you think the father's first name was Jim?"

"She told me that his name was James Delano. Also that he died within the
first year of their marriage, when the child was two months old, during
the voyage to Japan. That may be, but I can see no reason for her
returning here unless he died more recently and the settlement of his
estate demanded her presence."

"Pretty good reasoning, particularly if you are sure she stayed here
until the child was five. Some of them have pretty decent instincts. She
may have made up her mind to give the kid a chance, and returned to her
relations. Of course we must assume that they knew nothing of her life."

"I am positive they did not. But there had been some sort of
estrangement. I have been given to understand that it was because she
married an American. Of course she may not have written to them at all
for six or seven years. Her story is that she was visiting other
relatives in a place called Holbrook Centre, Vermont, and met this man
and married him. Then that he was detained by business in San Francisco
for several months, and the child born here."

"Good commonplace story. Just the sort that is never questioned. Of
course if she did not correspond with her family during all that time she
could adopt any name for her return to respectability that she chose.
Delano wasn't it? That's certain. What line do you intend to take? After
I've delivered the facts?"

"My object is to have the child's legitimacy established, if possible,
then see that Madame Delano leaves California forever. I think that she
could be terrified by a threat of blackmail. I can't imagine the mere
chance of recognition worrying her, for I should say she had as much
courage as presence of mind. But her passion is money. If she thought
there was any danger of being forced to hand over what she has I fancy
she would get out as quickly as possible. She is an intelligent woman and
I imagine she has taken a sardonic pleasure in sitting out in full view
of San Francisco, and getting away with it."

"And marrying her girl to the greatest catch in California," thought the
detective, but he said:

"I believe you're dead right, although, of course, there may be nothing
in it. Even 'Gene Bisbee might be mistaken, pryin' a gazelle out of an
elephant like that. Now, tell me all you know."

When Ruyler had covered every point Spaulding nodded. "It's possible this
Jim was the maquereau and she made him marry her for the sake of the
child. Doubt if the date can be proved except through the lawyers, and it
will be hard to make them talk. Of course if there is a Holbrook Centre
and she was married there--but I have my doubts. The point is that he
evidently married her if she is settlin' up his estate. I'll find out
what Jims have died within the last three years or so. That's easy. The
direct route to the one we want is through St. Peter. I'll go up
to-night."

"And you'll report to-morrow?"

"Yep. Meet me here at six P.M. Lucky the man seems to have died after
the fire. I'll set some one on the job of searching death records
right away."




CHAPTER IV


I

Ruyler had half promised to go to a dinner that night at the house of
John Gwynne, whose wife would chaperon his wife afterward to the last of
the Assembly dances.

Gwynne was his English friend who had abandoned the ancient title
inherited untimely when he was making a reputation in the House of
Commons, and become an American citizen in California, where he had a
large ranch originally the property of an American grandmother. His
migration had been justified in his own eyes by his ready adaptation to
the land of his choice and to the opportunities offered in the rebuilding
of San Francisco after the earthquake and fire, as well as in the
renovation of its politics. He had made his ranch profitable, read law as
a stepping-stone to the political career, and had just been elected to
Congress. Ruyler was one of his few intimate friends and had promised to
go to this farewell dinner if possible. A place would be kept vacant for
him until the last minute.

Gwynne had married Isabel Otis[A], a Californian of distinguished beauty
and abilities, whose roots were deep in San Francisco, although she had
"run a ranch" in Sonoma County. The Gwynnes and the Thorntons until
Ruyler met Hélène had been the friends whose society he had sought most
in his rare hours of leisure, and he had spent many summer week-ends at
their country homes. He had hoped that the intimacy would deepen after
his marriage, but Hélène during the past year had gone almost exclusively
with the younger set, the "dancing squad"; natural enough considering her
age, but Ruyler would have expected a girl of so much intelligence, to
say nothing of her severe education, to have tired long since of that
artificial wing of society devoted solely to froth, and gravitated
naturally toward the best the city afforded. But she had appeared to like
the older women better at first than later, although she accepted their
invitations to large dinners and dances.

[Footnote A: See "Ancestors."]

Ruyler made up his mind to attend this dinner at Gwynne's, and telephoned
his acceptance before he left Long's. Business or no business, he should
be his wife's bodyguard hereafter. There were blackmailers in society as
out of it, and it was possible that his ubiquity would frighten them off.
Whether to demand his wife's confidence or not he was undecided. Better
let events determine.


II

When he arrived at home he went directly to Hélène's room, but paused
with his hand on the knob of the door. He heard his mother-in-law's voice
and she was the last person he wished to meet until he was in a position
to tell her to leave the country. He was turning away impatiently when
Madame Delano lifted her hard incisive tones.

"And you promised me!" she exclaimed passionately. "I trusted you, I
never believed--"

Price retreated hurriedly to his own room, and it was not until he
had taken a cold shower and was half dressed that he permitted
himself to think.

That wretch had known, then! It was she who had been blackmailing her
daughter. And the poor child had been afraid to confide in him, to ask
him for money. No wonder her eyes had flashed at the prospect of a
fortune of her own....

An even less welcome ray illuminated his mind at this point. His wife was
not unversed in the arts of dissimulation herself. True, she was French
and took naturally to diplomatic wiles; true, also, the instinct of
self-preservation in even younger members of a sex that man in his
centuries of power had made, superficially, the weaker, was rarely inert.

What woman would wish her husband to know disgraceful ancestral secrets
which were no fault of hers? A much older woman would not be above
entombing them, if the fates were kind. But it saddened him to think that
his wife should be rushed to maturity along the devious way. Poor child,
he must win her confidence as quickly as his limping wits would permit
and shift her burden to his own shoulders.

Having learned through the medium of the house telephone that his
mother-in-law had departed, he knocked at his wife's door. She opened it
at once and there was no mark of agitation on her little oval face under
its proudly carried crown of heavy braids. She was looking very lovely in
a severe black velvet gown whose texture and depth cunningly matched her
eyes and threw into a relief as artful the white purity of her skin and
the delicate pink of lip and cheek.

She smiled at him brilliantly. "It can't be true that you are
going with me?"

"I've reformed. I shall go with you everywhere from this time forth. But
I thought I heard your mother's voice when I came in--"

"She often comes in about dressing time to see me in a new frock. How
heavenly that you will always go with me." Her voice shook a little and
she leaned over to smooth a possible wrinkle in her girdle.

"Will you come down to the library? We are rather early."

He went directly to the safe and took out the ruby and clasped the chain
about her neck. The chain was long and the great jewel took a deeper and
more mysterious color from the somber background of her bodice.

Hélène gasped. "Am I to wear it to-night? That would be too wonderful.
This is the last great night in town."

"Why not? I shall be there to mount guard. You shall always wear it when
I am able to go out with you."

She lifted her radiant face, although it remained subtly immobile with a
new and almost formal self-possession. "I am even more delighted than I
was yesterday, for at the fête there will be so much novelty to distract
attention. You always think of the nicest possible things."

When they were in the taxi he put his arm about her.

"I wonder," he began gropingly, "if you would mind not going out when I
cannot go with you? I'll go as often as I can manage. There are
reasons--"

He felt her light body grow rigid. "Reasons? You told me only
yesterday--"

"I know. But I have been thinking it over. That is rather a fast lot you
run with. I know, of course, they are F.F.C.'s, and all the rest of it,
but if I ever drove up to the Club House in Burlingame in the morning and
saw you sitting on the veranda smoking and drinking gin fizzes--"

"You never will! I could not swallow a gin fizz, or any nasty mixed
drink. And although I have had my cigarette after meals ever since I was
fifteen, I never smoke in public."

"I confess I cannot see you in the picture that rose for some perverse
reason in my mind; but--well, you really are too young to go about so
much without your husband--"

"I am always chaperoned to the large affairs. Mrs. Gwynne takes me to the
Fairmont to-night."

"I know. But scandal is bred in the marrow of San Francisco. Its social
history is founded upon it, and it is almost a matter of principle to
replace decaying props. Do you mind so much not going about unless I can
be with you?"

"No, of course not." Her voice was sweet and submissive, but her body did
not relax. She added graciously: "After all, there are so many luncheons,
and we often dance in the afternoon."

He had not thought of that! What avail to guard her merely in the
evening? It was not her life that was in danger....

And he seemed as immeasurably far from obtaining her confidence as
before. He had always understood that the ways of matrimonial diplomacy
were strewn with pitfalls and wished that some one had opened a school
for married men before his time.

He made another clumsy attempt. The cab was swift and had almost covered
the long distance between the Western Addition and Russian Hill. "Other
things have worried me. You are so generous. Society here as elsewhere
has its parasites, its dead beats, trying to limp along by borrowing,
gambling, 'amusing,' doing dirty work of various sorts. It has worried me
lest one or more of these creatures may have tried to impose on you with
hard luck tales--borrow--"

She laughed hysterically. "Price, you are too funny! I do lend
occasionally--to the girls, when their allowance runs out before the
first of the month; but I don't know any dead beats."

He plunged desperately. "Your mother's voice sounded rather agitated for
her. Of course I did not stop to listen, but it occurred to me that she
may have been gambling in stocks, or have got into some bad land deal.
She is so confoundedly close-mouthed--if she wants money send her to me."

Hélène sat very straight. Her little aquiline profile against the passing
street lights was as aloof as imperial features on an ancient coin.

"Really, Price, I don't think you can be as busy as you pretend if you
have time to indulge in such flights of imagination. Maman has never
tried to borrow a penny of me, and she is the last person on earth to
gamble in stocks or any thing else. Or to buy land except on expert
advice. I think she has given up that idea, anyhow. She said this evening
she thought it was time for her to visit our people in Rouen."

"Oh, she did! Hélène, I must tell you frankly that I heard her reproach
you for having broken a promise, and she spoke with deep feeling."

It was possible that the Roman profile turned white, but in the dusk of
the car he could not be sure. His wife, however, merely shrugged her
shoulders and replied calmly:

"My dear Price, if that has worried you, why didn't you say so at once? I
am rather ashamed to tell you, all the same. Maman has been at me lately
to persuade you to let her have the ruby for a week. She is dreadfully
superstitious, poor maman, and is convinced it would bring her some
tremendous good fortune--"

"I have never met a woman who, I could swear, was freer from
superstition--"

Price closed his lips angrily. Of what use to tax her feminine defenses
further? He had known her long enough to be sure she would rather tell
the truth than lie. It was evident that she had no intention of lowering
her barriers, and he must play the game from the other end: get the proof
he needed and engineer his mother-in-law out of the United States.

Some time, however, he would have it out with his wife. Being a business
man and always alert to outwit the other man, he wanted neither intrigue
nor mystery in his home, but a serene happiness founded upon perfect
confidence. He found it impossible to remain appalled or angry at his
wife's readiness of resource in guarding a family secret that must have
shocked the youth in her almost out of existence.

He patted her hand, and felt its chill within the glove.

"It was like you never to have mentioned it," he murmured. "For, of
course, it is quite impossible."

"That is what I told her decidedly to-night, and I do not think she will
ask again. It hurts me to refuse dear maman anything. Her devotion to me
has been wonderful--but wonderful," she added on a defiant note.

"A mother's devotion, particularly to a girl of your sort, does not make
any call upon my exclamation points. But here we are."

       *       *       *       *       *

The car rolled up the graded driveway Gwynne had built for the old San
Francisco house that before his day had been approached by an almost
perpendicular flight of wooden steps. They were late and the company
had assembled: the Thorntons, Trennahans, and eight or ten young
people, all of whom would be chaperoned by the married women to the
dance at the Fairmont.

Russian Hill had escaped the fire, but Nob Hill had been burnt down to
its bones, and the Thorntons and Trennahans had not rebuilt, preferring,
like many others, to live the year round in their country homes and use
the hotels in winter.

The moment Hélène entered the drawing-room it was evident that the ruby
was to make as great a sensation as the soul of woman could desire. Even
the older people flocked about her and the girls were frank and shrill in
their astonishment and rapture.

"Hélène! Darling! The duckiest thing--I never saw anything so perfectly
dandy and wonderful! I'd go simply mad! Do, just let me touch it! I
could eat it!"

Mrs. Thornton, who at any time scorned to conceal envy, or pretend
indifference, looked at the great burning stone with a sigh and turned to
her husband.

"Why didn't you manage to get it for me?" she demanded. "It would be far
more suitable--a magnificent stone like that!--on me than on that baby."

"My darling," murmured Ford anxiously, "I never laid eyes on the thing
before, or on one like it. I'll find out where Ruyler got it, and try--"

"Do you suppose I'd come out with a duplicate? You should have thought of
it years ago. You always promised to take me to India."

"It should be on you!" He gazed at her adoringly. Her hair was dressed
in a high and stately fashion to-night. She wore a gown of gold brocade
and a necklace and little tiara of emeralds and diamonds; she was
looking very handsome and very regal. Thornton was a thin, dark, nervous
wisp of a man, who had borne his share of the burdens laid upon his city
in the cataclysm of 1906, but if his wife had demanded an enormous
historic ruby he would have done his best to gratify her. But how the
deuce could a man--

Mrs. Gwynne was holding the stone in her hand and smiling into its
flaming depths without envy. She was one of those women of dazzling white
skin, black hair and blue eyes, who, when wise, never wear any jewels but
pearls. She wore the Gwynne pearls to-night and a shimmering white gown.

Ruyler glanced round the fine old room with the warm feeling of
satisfaction he always experienced at a San Francisco function, where the
women were almost as invariably pretty as they were gay and friendly. He
did not like the younger men he met on these occasions as well as he did
many of the older ones; the serious ones would not waste their time on
society, and there were too many of the sort who were asked everywhere
because they had made a cult of fashion, whether they could afford it or
not. A few were the sons of wealthy parents, and were more dissipated
than those obliged to "hold down" a job that provided them with money
enough above their bare living expenses to make them useful and
presentable.

Ruyler looked upon both sorts as cumberers of the earth, and only
tolerated them in his own house when his wife gave a party and dancing
men must be had at any price.

There was one man here to-night for whom he had always held particular
detestation. His name was Nicolas Doremus. He was a broker in a small
way, but Ruyler guessed that he made the best part of his income at
bridge, possibly poker. He lived with two other men in a handsome
apartment in one of the new buildings that were changing the old skyline
of San Francisco. His dancing teas and suppers were admirably appointed
and the most exclusive people went to them.

Ruyler knew his history in a general way. His father had made a fortune
in "Con. Virginia" in the Seventies, and his mother for a few years had
been the social equal of the women who now patronized her son. But
unfortunately the gambling microbe settled down in Harry Doremus' veins,
and shortly after his son was born he engaged his favorite room at the
Cliff House and blew out his brains. His wife was left with a large
house, which as a last act of grace he had forborne to mortgage and made
over to her by deed. She immediately advertised for boarders, and as her
cooking was excellent and she had the wit to drop out of society and give
her undivided attention to business, she prospered exceedingly.

She concentrated her ambitions upon her only child; sent him to a private
school patronized by the sons of the wealthy, and herself taught him
every ingratiating social art. She wanted him to go to college, but by
this time "Nick" was nineteen and as highly developed a snob as her
maternal heart had planned. Knowing that he must support himself
eventually, he was determined to begin his business career at once, and
believed, with some truth, that there was a prejudice in this broad field
against college men. He entered the brokerage firm of a bachelor who had
occupied Mrs. Doremus' best suite for fifteen years, and made a
satisfactory clerk, the while he cultivated his mother's old friends.

When Mrs. Doremus died he sold the house and good will for a considerable
sum, and, combining it with her respectable savings, formed a partnership
with two other young fellows, whose fathers were rich, but old-fashioned
enough to insist that their sons should work. Nick did most of the work.
His partners, during the rainy season, sat with their feet on the
radiator and read the popular magazines, and in fine weather upheld the
outdoor traditions of the state.

The firm had a slender patronage, as Ruyler happened to know, but Doremus
was a member of the Pacific Union Club, and although he dined out every
night, he must have spent six or seven thousand a year. It was amiably
assumed that his social services,--he played and sang and often
entertained exacting groups throughout an entire evening--his fetching
and carrying for one rich old lady, accounted for his ability to keep out
of debt and pay for his many extravagances; but Ruyler knew that he was
principally esteemed at the small green table, and he vaguely recalled as
he looked over his head to-night that he had heard disconnected murmurs
of less honorable sources of revenue.

As Ruyler turned away with a frown he met Gwynne's eyes traveling from
the same direction. "I didn't ask him," he said apologetically. "Hate men
too well dressed. Looks as if he posed for tailors' ads in the weeklies.
Never could stand the social parasite anyhow, but Aileen Lawton asked
Isabel to let her bring him, as they are going to open the ball to-night
with some new kind of turkey trot.

"Glad I'm off for Washington. California's the greatest place on earth in
the dry season, but I'd have passed few winters here if it hadn't been
for the work we all had to do, and even then it would have been heavy
going without my wife's companionship."

Ruyler sighed. Should he ever enjoy his wife's companionship? And into
what sort of woman would she develop if forced along crooked ways by ugly
secrets, blackmail, perpetual lying and deceit? He longed impatiently for
the decisive interview with Spaulding on the morrow. Then, at least he
could prepare for action, and, after all, even of more importance now
than winning his wife's confidence and saving her from mental anguish,
was the averting of a scandal that would echo across the continent
straight into the ears of his half-reconciled father.


IV

It was about halfway through dinner that the primitive man in him routed
every variety of apprehension that had tormented him since two o'clock
that afternoon.

Trennahan, another distinguished New Yorker, who had made his home in
California for many years, had taken in Mrs. Gwynne, and his Spanish
California wife sat at the foot of the table with the host. Ford had
been given a lively girl, Aileen Lawton, to dissipate the financial
anxieties of the day, and, to Ruyler's satisfaction, Mrs. Thornton had
fallen to his lot and he sat on the left of Isabel. In this little group
at the head of the table, his chosen intimates, who were more interested
in the affairs of the world than in Consummate California, Ruyler had
forgotten his wife for a time and had not noticed with whom she had gone
in to dinner.

But during an interval when Mrs. Thornton's attention had been captured
by the man on her right, and the others drawn into a discussion over
the merits of the new mayor, Price became aware that Doremus sat beside
his wife halfway down the table on the opposite side, and that they
were talking, if not arguing, in a low tone, oblivious for the moment
of the company.

The deferential bend was absent from the neck of the adroit social
explorer, his head was alertly poised above the lovely young matron whose
beauty, wealth, and foreign personality, to say nothing of the importance
of her husband, gave her something of the standing of royalty in the
aristocratic little republic of San Francisco Society. There was a vague
threat in that poise, as if at any moment venom might dart down and
strike that drooping head with its crown of blue-black braids. Suddenly
Hélène lifted her eyes, full of appeal, to the round pale blue orbs that
at this moment openly expressed a cold and ruthless mind.

Ruyler endeavored to piece together those disconnected whispers--letters
discovered or stolen--blackmail--but such whispers were too often the
whiffs from energetic but empty minds, always floating about and never
seeming to bring any culprit to book.

Had this man got hold of his wife's secret?

But this merely sequacious thought was promptly routed. The young man,
who was undeniably good looking and was rumored to possess a certain cold
charm for women--although, to be sure, the wary San Francisco heiress had
so far been impervious to it--was now leaning over Mrs. Price Ruyler with
a coaxing possessive air, and the appeal left Hélène's eyes as she smiled
coquettishly and began to talk with her usual animation; but still in a
tone that was little more than a murmur.

She moved her shoulder closer to the man she evidently was bent upon
fascinating, and her long eyelashes swept up and down while her black
eyes flashed and her pink color deepened.

There was a faint amusement mixed with Doremus' habitual air of amiable
deference, and somewhat more of assurance, but he was as absorbed as
Hélène and had no eyes for Janet Maynard, on his left, whose fortune ran
into millions.

For a moment Ruyler, who had kept his nerve through several years of
racking strain which, even an American is seldom called upon to survive,
wondered if he were losing his mind. To business and all its fluctuations
and even abnormalities, he had been bred; there was probably no condition
possible in the world of finance and commerce which could shatter his
self-possession, cloud his mental processes. But his personal life had
been singularly free of storms. Even his emotional upheaval, when he had
fallen completely in love for the first time, had lacked that torment of
uncertainty which might have played a certain havoc, for a time, with
those quick unalterable decisions of the business hour; and even his
engagement had only lasted a month.

It was true that during the past six months he had worried off and on
about the shadow that had fallen upon his wife's spirits and affected his
own, but, when he had had time to think of it, before yesterday morning,
he had assumed it was due to some phase of feminine psychology which he
had never mastered. That she could be interested in another man never had
crossed his mind, in spite of his passing flare of jealousy. She was
still passionately in love with, him, for all her vagaries--or so he had
thought--

Ruyler was conscious of a riotous confusion of mind that really made him
apprehensive. Had he witnessed that scene on the dummy--this
afternoon?--it seemed a long while ago--had he heard those portentous
words of his mother-in-law to his wife?--had they meant that she had
warned her daughter against the bad blood in her veins, extracted a
promise--broken!--to walk in the narrow way of the dutiful
wife--mercifully spared by a fortunate marriage the terrible temptations
of the older woman's youth? Had Hélène confessed ... in desperate need of
help, advice? ... Doremus was just the bounder to compromise a woman and
then blackmail her.... Good God! What  was  it?

For all his mental turmoil he realized that here alone was the only
possible menace to his life's happiness. His mother-in-law's past was a
bitter pill for a proud man to swallow, and there was even the
possibility of his wife's illegitimacy, but, after all, those were
matters belonging to the past, and the past quickly receded to limbo
these days.

Even an open scandal, if some one of the offal sheets of San Francisco
got hold of the story and published it, would be forgotten in time. But
this--if his wife had fallen in love with another man--and women had no
discrimination where love was concerned--(if a decent chap got a lovely
girl it was mainly by luck; the rotters got just as good)--then indeed he
was in the midst of disaster without end. The present was chaos and the
future a blank. He'd enlist in the first war and get himself shot....

Hélène had a charming light coquetry, wholly French, and she exercised it
indiscriminately, much to the delight of the old beaux, for she loved to
please, to be admired; she had an innocent desire that all men should
think her quite beautiful and irresistible. Even her husband had never
seen her in an unbecoming  déshabillé ; she coquetted with him
shamelessly, whenever she was not too gloriously serious and intent only
upon making him happy. Until lately--

This was by no means her ordinary form.

He had come upon too many couples in remote corners of conservatories,
had been a not unaccomplished principal in his own day ... there was,
beyond question, some deep understanding between her and this man.

Suddenly Ruyler's gaze burned through to his wife's consciousness. She
moved her eyes to his, flushed to her hair, then for a moment looked
almost gray. But she recovered herself immediately and further showed her
remarkable powers of self-possession by turning back to her partner and
talking to him with animation instead of plunging into conversation with
the man on her right.

At the same moment Ruyler became subtly aware that Mrs. Thornton was
looking at his wife and Doremus, and as his eyes focused he saw her long,
thin, mobile mouth curl and her eyes fill with open disdain. The mist in
his brain fled as abruptly as an inland fog out in the bay before one of
the sudden winds of the Pacific. In any case, his mind hardly could have
remained in a state of confusion for long; but that his young wife was
being openly contemned by the cleverest as well as the most powerful
woman in San Francisco was enough to restore his equilibrium in a flash.
Whatever his wife's indiscretions, it was his business to protect her
until such time as he had proof of more than indiscretion. And in this
instance he should be his own detective.

He turned to Mrs. Thornton.

"Going on to the Fairmont?" he asked.

"Oh, yes, I have a new gown--have you admired it? Arrived from Paris last
night--and I am chaperoning two of these girls. You are not, of course?"

"I did intend to, but it's no go. Still, I may drop in late and take my
wife home--"

"Let me take her home." Was his imagination morbid, or was there
something both peremptory and eager in Mrs. Thornton's tones? "I'm
stopping at the Fairmont, of course, but Fordy and I often take a drive
after a hot night and a heavy supper."

"If you would take her home in case I miss it. I must go to the office--"

"I'd like to. That's settled." This time her tones were warm and
friendly. Ruyler knew that Mrs. Thornton did not like his wife, but her
friendliness toward him, since her return from Europe three or four
months ago, had increased, if anything. His mind was now working with its
accustomed keen clarity. He recalled that there had been no surprise
mixed with the contempt in her regard of his wife and Doremus.... He also
recalled that several times of late when he had met her at the
Fairmont--where he often lunched with a group of men--she had regarded
him with a curious considering glance, which he suddenly vocalized as:
"How long?"

This affair had been going on for some time, then. Either it was common
talk, or some circumstance had enlightened Mrs. Thornton alone.

He glanced around the table. No one appeared to be taking the slightest
notice of one of many flirtations. At least, whatever his wife's
infatuation, he could avert gossip. Mrs. Thornton might be a tigress, but
she was not a cat.

"When do you go down to Burlingame?" she asked.

"Not for two or three weeks yet. I don't fancy merely sleeping in the
country. But by that time things will ease up a bit and I can get down
every day in time to have a game of golf before dinner."

"Shall Mrs. Ruyler migrate with the rest?"

"Hardly."

"It will be dull for her in town. No reflections on your charming
society, but of course she does not get much of it, and she will miss her
young friends. After all, she is a child and needs playmates."

Ruyler darted at her a sharp look, but she was smiling amiably. Doremus
and the men he lived with, in town had a bungalow at Burlingame and they
bought their commutation tickets at precisely the fashionable moment.
"She will stay in town," he said shortly. "She needs a rest, and San
Francisco is the healthiest spot on earth."

"But trying to the nerves when what we inaccurately call the trade winds
begin. Why not let her stay with me? Of course she would be lonely in her
own house, and is too young to stay there alone anyhow, but I'd like to
put her up, and you certainly could run down week-ends--possibly oftener.
American men are always obsessed with the idea that they are twice as
busy as they really are."

"You are too good. I'll put it up to Hélène. Of course it is for her to
decide. I'd like it mighty well." But grateful as he was, his uneasiness
deepened at her evident desire to place her forces at his disposal.




CHAPTER V


I

"And you won't take me to the party?" Hélène pouted charmingly as her
husband laid her pink taffeta wrap over her shoulders. "I thought you
said you might make it, and it would be too delightful to dance with you
once more."

"I'm afraid not. The Australian mail came in just as business closed and
it's on my mind. I want to go over it carefully before I dictate the
answers in the morning, and that means two or three hours of hard work
that will leave me pretty well fagged out. Mrs. Thornton has offered to
take you home."

"I hate her."

"Oh, please don't!" Ruyler smiled into her somber eyes. "She wants the
drive, and it would be taking the Gwynnes so far out of the way. Mrs.
Thornton very kindly suggested it."

"I hate her," said Hélène conclusively. "I wish now I'd kept my own car.
Then I could always go home alone."

"You shall have a car next winter. And this time I shall not permit you
to pay for it out of your allowance--which in any case I hope to increase
by that time."

Her eyes flamed, but not with anger. "Then I'll sell my electric to
Aileen Lawton right away. We have the touring car in the country, and
she has been trying to make her father buy her an electric--"

"I'm afraid you'll be disappointed in your bargain. Second-hand cars, no
matter what their condition, always go at a sacrifice, and old Lawton is
a notorious screw. Better not let it go for two or three hundreds; you
look very sweet driving about in it.... Oh, by the way--I had
forgotten." He slipped his hand under her coat, unfastened the chain and
slipped the jewel into his pocket. "I am sorry," he said, with real
contrition, "and almost wish I had forgotten the thing; but I am a little
superstitious about keeping that old promise."

She laughed. "And yet you will not permit poor maman a little
superstition of her own! But I am rather glad. Everybody at the ball will
hear of the ruby, and I shall be able to keep them in suspense until the
Thornton fête. Good night. Don't work too hard. Couldn't you get there
for supper?"

"'Fraid not."


II

He did go down to the office and glance through the Australian mail,
but at a few moments before twelve he took a California Street car up
to the Fairmont Hotel and went directly to the ballroom. Mrs.
Thornton was standing just within the doorway, but came toward him
with lifted eyebrows.

"This is like old times," she said playfully.

"I found less mail than I expected and thought I would come and have a
dance with my wife." His eyes wandered over the large room, gayly
decorated, and filled with dancing couples.

Mrs. Thornton laughed. "A belle like your wife? She is always engaged for
every dance on her program before she is halfway down this corridor."

"Oh, well, husbands have some rights. I'll take it by force. I don't see
her--she must be sitting out."

Mrs. Thornton slipped her arm through his. "This dance has just begun.
Walk me up and down. I am tired of standing on one foot."

They strolled down the corridor and through the large central hall. Older
folks sat or stood in groups; a few young couples were sitting out.
Ruyler did not see his wife, and concluded she had been resting at the
moment in the dowager ranks against the wall of the ballroom. The music
ceased sooner than he expected and Mrs. Thornton, who had been talking
with animation on the subject of several fine pictures she had bought
while abroad for the Museum in Golden Gate Park, including one by
Masefield Price, broke off with an impatient exclamation: "Bother! I must
run up to my room at once and telephone. Wait for me here."

She steered him toward a group of men. "Mr. Gwynne, keep Mr. Ruyler from
causing a riot in the ballroom. He insists upon dancing with his wife.
Hold him by force."

They were standing near the staircase and some distance from the lift.
Mrs. Thornton ran up the stairs, pausing for an irresistible moment and
looking down at the company. As she stood there, poised, she looked a
royal figure with her cloth of gold train covering the steps below her
and her high and flashing head. "Wait for me," she said, imperiously to
Price. "I cannot meander down that corridor, deserted and alone."

Ruyler smiled at her, but said to Gwynne: "I'll just go and engage my
wife for a dance and be back in a jiffy--"

Gwynne clasped his hand about Ruyler's arm. "Just a moment, old chap. I
want your opinion--"

"But there is the music again. I'll be knocking people over--"

"You will if you go now, and there'll be dancing for hours yet. Your wife
has been dividing up--now, tell me if you back me in this proposition or
not. I'm going to Washington to represent you fellows--"

But Ruyler had broken politely away and was walking down the long
corridor. When he arrived at the ballroom he saw at a glance that his
wife was not there, for the floor was only half filled. But there were
other rooms where dancers sat in couples or groups when tired. He went
hastily through all of them, but saw nothing of his wife. Nor of Doremus.

Mrs. Thornton had gone in search of her.

And Gwynne knew.

This time the hot blood was pounding in his head. He felt as he imagined
madmen did when about to run amok. Or quite as primitive as any
Californian of the surging "Fifties."

He was in one of the smaller rooms and he sat down in a corner with his
back to the few people in it and endeavored to take hold of himself; the
conventional training of several lifetimes and his own intense pride
forbade a scene in public. But his curved fingers longed for Doremus'
throat and he made up his mind that if his awful suspicions were
vindicated he would beat his wife black and blue. That was far more
sensible and manly than running whining to a divorce court.

The effort at self-control left him gasping, but when he rose from his
shelter he was outwardly composed, and determined to seek Gwynne and
force the truth from him. He would not discuss his wife with another
woman. And whatever this hideous tragedy brooding over his life he would
go out and come to grips with it at once.


III

And in the corridor he saw his wife chatting gayly with a group of young
friends. Her color was paler than usual, perhaps, but that was not
uncommon at a party, and otherwise she was as unruffled, as normal in
appearance and manner, as when they had parted at the Gwynnes'.

Nevertheless, he went directly up to her, and as she gave a little cry of
pleased surprise, he drew her hand through his arm. "Come!" he said
imperiously. "You are to dance this with me. I broke away on purpose--"

"But, darling, I am full up--"

"You have skipped at least two. I have been looking everywhere for you--"

"Polly Roberts dragged me upstairs to see the new gowns M. Dupont brought
her from Paris. They came this afternoon--so did Mrs. Thornton's--but of
course I'll dance this with you. You don't look well," she added
anxiously. "Aren't you?"

"Quite, but rather tired--mentally. I need a dance...."

He wondered if she had gently propelled him down the corridor. They were
some distance from the group. It was impossible for him to go back and
ask if his wife's story were true. Mrs. Thornton was nowhere to be seen,
neither in the corridor nor in the ballroom. Nor was Doremus. He set his
teeth grimly and managed to smile down upon his wife.

"I shall insist upon having more than one," he said gallantly. "At least
three hesitations."

She drew in her breath with a mock sigh and swept from under her long
lashes a glance that still had the power to thrill him. "Outrageous, but
I shall try to bear up," and the next moment they were giving a graceful
exhibition of the tango.

"I don't see your friend Doremus," he said casually, as he stood fanning
her at the end of the dance.

She lifted her eyebrows haughtily. "My friend? That parasite?"

"You seemed very friendly at dinner."

"I usually am with my dinner companion. One's hostess is to be
considered. Oh--I remember--he was telling me some very amusing gossip,
although he teased me into fearing he wouldn't. Now, if you are going to
dance this hesitation with me you had better whirl me off. It is Mr.
Thornton's, and I see him coming."

Ruyler did not see Doremus until supper was half over and then the young
man entered the dining-room hurriedly, his usually serene brow lowering
and his lips set. He walked directly up to Hélène.

"Beastly luck!" he exclaimed. "Hello, Ruyler. Didn't know you honored
parties any more. I had to break away to meet the Overland train--beastly
thing was late, of course. Then I had to take them to five hotels before
I could settle them. They had two beastly little dogs and the hotels
wouldn't take them in and they wouldn't give up the dogs. Some one ought
to set up a high-class dog hotel. Sure it would pay. But you'll give me
the first after supper, won't you?"

Hélène gave him a casual smile that was a poor reward for his elaborate
apology. "So sorry," she said with the sweet distant manner in which she
disposed of bores and climbers, "but Mr. Ruyler and I are both tired. We
are going home directly after supper."




CHAPTER VI


I

On the following day at six o'clock Ruyler went to Long's to meet Jake
Spaulding. By a supreme effort of will he had put his private affairs out
of his mind and concentrated on the business details which demanded the
most highly trained of his faculties. But now he felt relaxed, almost
languid, as he walked along Montgomery Street toward the rendezvous. He
met no one he knew. The historic Montgomery Street, once the center of
the city's life, was almost deserted, but half rebuilt. He could saunter
and think undisturbed.

What was he to hear? And what bearing would it be found to have on his
wife's conduct?

He had gone to sleep last night as sure as a man may be of anything that
his wife was no more interested in Doremus than in any other of the
young men who found time to dance attendance upon idle, bored, but
virtuous wives.

If the man knew her secret and were endeavoring to exact blackmail he
would pay his price with joy--after thrashing him, for he would have
sacrificed the half of his fortune never to experience again not only the
demoralizing attack of jealous madness of the night before, which had
brought in its wake the uneasy doubt if civilization were as far advanced
as he had fondly imagined, but the sensation of amazed contempt which had
swept over him at the dinner table as he had seen his wife, whom he had
believed to be a woman of instinctive taste and fastidiousness,
manifestly upon intimate terms with a creature who should have been
walking on four legs. Better, perhaps, the desire to kill a woman than to
despise her--

He slammed the door when he entered the little room reserved for him, and
barely restrained himself from flinging his hat into a corner and
breaking a chair on the table. His languor had vanished.

Spaulding followed him immediately.

"Howdy," he said genially, as he pushed his own hat on the back of his
head and bit hungrily at the end of a cigar. "Suppose you've been
impatient--unless too busy to think about it."

"I'd like to know what you've found out as quickly as you can tell me."

"Well, to begin with the kid. I had some trouble at the convent. They're
a close-mouthed lot, nuns. But I frightened them. Told them it was a
property matter, and unless they answered my questions privately they'd
have to answer them in court. Then they came through."

"Well?"

Spaulding lit his cigar and handed the match to Ruyler, who ground it
under his heel.

"Just about nineteen years ago a Frenchwoman, giving her name as Madame
Dubois, arrived one day with a child a year old and asked the nuns to
take care of it, promising a fancy payment. The child had been on a farm
with a wet-nurse (French style), but Madame Dubois wanted it to learn
from the first to speak proper English and French, and to live in a
refined atmosphere generally from the time it was able to take notice.
She said she was on the stage and had to travel, so was not able to give
the kid the attention it should have, and the doctor had told her that
traveling was bad for kids that age, anyhow. Her lawyers would pay the
baby's board on the first of every month--"

"Who were the lawyers?"

"Lawton and Cross."

"I thought so. Go on."

"The nuns, who, after all, knew their California, thought they smelt a
rat, for the woman was extraordinarily handsome, magnificently dressed;
the Mother Superior--who is a woman of the world, all right--read the
newspapers, and had never seen the name of Dubois--and knew that only
stars drew fat salaries. She asked some sharp questions about the father,
and the woman replied readily that he was a scientific man, an inventor,
and--well, it was natural, was it not? they did not get on very well. He
disliked the stage, but she had been on it before she married him, and
dullness and want of money for her own needs and her child's had driven
her back. He had lived in Los Angeles for a time, but had recently gone
East to take a high-salaried position. It was with his consent that she
asked the nuns to take the child--possibly for two or three years. When
she was a famous actress and could leave the road, she would keep house
for her husband in New York, and make a home for the child.

"The Mother Superior, by this time, had made up her mind that the father
wished the child removed from the mother's influence, and although she
took the whole yarn with a bag of salt, the child was the most beautiful
she had ever seen, and obviously healthy and amiable. Moreover, the
convent was to receive two hundred dollars a month--"

"What?"

"Exactly. Can you beat it? The Mother Superior made up her mind it was
her duty to bring up the little thing in the way it should go. As the
woman was leaving she said something about a possible reconciliation with
her family, who lived in France; they had not written her since she went
on the stage. They were of a respectability!--of the old tradition! But
if they came round she might take the child to them, if her husband would
consent. She should like it to be brought up in France--

"Here the Mother Superior interrupted her sharply. Was her husband a
Frenchman? And she answered, no doubt before she thought, for these
people always forget something, that no, he was an American--her family,
also, detested Americans. The Mother Superior once more interrupted her
glibness. How, then, did he have a French name? Oh, but that was her
stage name--she always went by it and had given it without thinking. What
was her husband's name? After a second's hesitation she stupidly give the
name Smith. I can see the mouth of the Mother Superior as it set in a
grim line. 'Very well,' said she, 'the child's name is Hélène Smith'; and
although the woman made a wry face she was forced to submit.

"The child remained there four years, and the Mother Superior had some
reason to believe that 'Madame Dubois' spent a good part of that time in
San Francisco. She came at irregular intervals to see the child--always
in vacation, when there were no pupils in the convent, and always at
night. The Mother Superior, however, thought it best to make no
investigations, for the child throve, they were all daffy about her, and
the money came promptly on the first of every month. When the mother came
she always brought a trunk full of fine underclothes, and left the money
for a new uniform. Then, one day, Madame Dubois arrived in widow's weeds,
said that her husband was dead, leaving her quite well off, and that she
was returning to France."

"And Madame Delano's story is that he died on the way to Japan--if it is
the same woman--"

"Haven't a doubt of it myself. I did a little cabling before I left last
night to a man I know in Paris to find out just when Madame Delano
returned with her child to live with her family in Rouen. He got busy and
here is his answer--just fifteen years ago almost to the minute."

"Then who was her husband?"

"There you've got me--so far. He was no 'scientist, who later accepted
a high-salaried position.' A decent chap of that sort would have
written to his child, paid her board himself, most likely taken it away
from the mother--"

"But she may have kidnapped it--"

"People are too easy traced in this State--especially that sort. Nor do
I believe she was an actress. There never was any actress of that
name--not so you'd notice it, anyhow, and that woman would have been
known for her looks and height even if she couldn't act. Moreover, if
she was an actress there would be no sense in giving the nuns a false
name, since she had admitted the fact. No, it's my guess that she was
something worse."

"Well, I've prepared myself for anything."

"I figure out that she was the mistress of one of our rich highfliers,
and that when he got tired of her he pensioned her off, and she made up
her mind to reform on account of the kid, and went back to Rouen, and
proceeded to identify herself with her class by growing old and shapeless
as quickly as possible. She must have adopted the name Delano in New York
before she bought her steamer ticket, for although I've had a man on the
hunt, the only Delanos of that time were eminently respectable--"

"Why are you sure she was not a--well--woman of the town?"

"Because, there again--there's no dame of that time either of that name
or looks--neither Dubois nor Delano. Of course, they come and go, but
there's every reason to think she stayed right on here in S.F. Of
course, I've only had twenty-four hours--I'll find out in another
twenty-four just what conspicuous women of fifteen to twenty years ago
measure up to what she must have looked like--I got the Mother Superior
to describe her minutely: nearly six feet, clear dark skin with a
natural red color--no make-up; very small features, but well made--nose
and mouth I'm talking about. The eyes were a good size, very black with
rather thin eyelashes. Lots of black hair. Stunning figure. Rather large
ears and hands and feet. She always dressed in black, the handsomest
sort. They generally do."

"Well?" asked Ruyler through his teeth. He had no doubt the woman was his
mother-in-law. "The Jameses? What of them?"

"That's the snag. Rest is easy in comparison. Innumerable Jameses must
have died about that time, to say nothing of all the way along the line,
but while some of the records were saved in 1906, most went up in smoke.
Moreover, there's just the chance that he didn't die here. But that's
going on the supposition that the man died when she left California,
which don't fit our theory. I still think he died not so very long before
her return to California, and that she probably came to collect a legacy
he had left her. Otherwise, I should think it's about the last place she
would have come to. I put a man on the job before I left of collecting
the Jameses who've died since the fire. Here they are."

He took a list from his pocket and read:

"James Hogg, bookkeeper--races, of course. James Fowler, saloon-keeper.
James Despard, called 'Frenchy,' a clever crook who lived on
blackmail--said to have a gift for getting hold of secrets of men and
women in high society and squeezing them good and plenty--"

He paused. "Of course, that might be the man. There are points. I'll have
his life looked into, but somehow I don't believe it. I have a hunch the
man was a higher-up. The sort of woman the Mother Superior described can
get the best, and they take it. To proceed: James Dillingworth, lawyer,
died in the odor of sanctity, but you never can tell; I'll have him
investigated, too. James Maston--I haven't had time to have had the
private lives of any of these men looked into, but I knew some of them,
and Maston, who was a journalist, left a wife and three children and was
little, if any, over thirty. James Cobham, broker--he was getting on to
fifty, left about a million, came near being indicted during the Graft
Prosecutions, and although his wife has been in the newspapers as a
society leader for the last twenty years, and he was one of the founders
of Burlingame, and then was active in changing the name of the high part
to Hillsboro when the swells felt they couldn't be identified with the
village any longer, and he handed out wads the first of every year to
charity, there are stories that he came near being divorced by his
haughty wife about fifteen years ago. Of course, those men don't parade
their mistresses openly like they did thirty years ago--I mean men with
any social position to keep up. But now and again the wife finds a note,
or receives an anonymous letter, and gets busy. Then it's the divorce
court, unless he can smooth her down, and promises reform. Cobham seems
to me the likeliest man, and I'm going to start a thorough investigation
to-morrow. These other Jameses don't hold out any promise at
all--grocers, clerks, butchers. It's the list in hand I'll go by, and if
nothing pans out--well, we'll have to take the other cue she threw out
and try Los Angeles."

"Do you know anything about a man named Nicolas Doremus?" asked
Ruyler abruptly.

"The society chap? Nothing much except that he don't do much business on
the street but is supposed to be pretty lucky at poker and bridge. But he
runs with the crowd the police can't or don't raid. I've never seen or
heard of him anywhere he shouldn't be except with swell slumming or
roadhouse parties. He's never interested me. If Society can stand that
sort of bloodsucking tailor's model, I guess I can. Why do you ask? Got
anything to do with this case?"

"I have an idea he has found out the truth and is blackmailing my wife.
You might watch him."

"Good point. I will. And if he's found out the truth I guess I can."




CHAPTER VII


I

Hélène, as Ruyler had anticipated, refused positively to accept Mrs.
Thornton's invitation.

"Do you think I'd leave you--to come home to a dreary house every night?
Even if I don't see much of you, at least you know I'm there; and that if
you have an evening off you have only to say the word and I'll break any
engagement--you have always known that!"

Ruyler had not, but she looked so eager and sweet--she was lunching with
him at the Palace Hotel on the day following his interview with
Spaulding--that he hastened to assure her affectionately that the
certainty of his wife's desire for his constant companionship was both
his torment and his consolation.

Hélène continued radiantly:

"Besides, darling, Polly Roberts is staying on. Rex can't get away yet."

"Polly Roberts is not nearly good enough for you. She hasn't an idea in
her head and lives on excitement--"

Hélène laughed merrily. "You are quite right, but there's no harm in her.
After all, unless one goes in for charities (and I can't, Price, yet;
besides the charities here are wonderfully looked after), plays bridge,
has babies, takes on suffrage--what is there to do but play? I suppose
once life was serious for young women of our class; but we just get into
the habit of doing nothing because there's nothing to do. Take to-morrow
as an example: I suppose Polly and I will wander down to The Louvre in
the morning and buy something or look at the new gowns M. Dupont has just
brought from Paris.

"Then we'll lunch where there's lots of life and everybody is chatting
gayly about nothing.

"Then we'll go to the Moving Pictures unless there is a matinée, and then
we'll motor out to the Boulevard, and then back and have tea somewhere.

"Or, perhaps, we'll motor down to the Club at Burlingame for lunch and
chatter away the day on the veranda, or dance. This afternoon we'll
probably ring up a few that are still in town, and dance in Polly's
parlor at the Fairmont."

Hélène's lip curled, her voice had risen. With, all her young enjoyment
of wealth and position, she had been bred in a class where to idle is a
crime. "Just putting in time--time that ought to be as precious as
youth and high spirits and ease and popularity! But what is one to do?
I have no talents, and I'd lose caste in my set if I had. I don't
wonder the Socialists hate us and want to put us all to work. No doubt
we should be much happier. But now--even if you retired from business,
you'd spend most of your time on the links. We poor women wouldn't be
much better off."

"It does seem an abnormal state of affairs; I've barely given it a
thought, it has always been such a pleasure to find you, after a hard
day's work, looking invariably dainty, and pretty, and eloquently
suggestive of leisure and repose. But--to the student of history--I
suppose it is a condition that cannot last. There must be some sort of
upheaval due. Well, I hope it will give me more of your society."

They smiled at each other across the little table in perfect confidence.
They were lunching in the court, and after she had blown him a kiss over
her glass of red wine, her eyes happened to travel in the direction of
the large dining-room. She gave a little exclamation of distaste.

"There is maman lunching with that hateful old Mr. Lawton. He was in her
sitting-room when I ran in to call on her yesterday, and nearly snapped
my head off when I asked him if he wouldn't buy my electric for Aileen.
He said it was time she began to learn a few economies instead of more
extravagances. Poor darling Aileen. She has to stay in town, too, for he
won't open the house in Atherton until he is ready to go down himself
every night."

"Is he an old friend of your mother's?"

"She and Papa met him when they were here, and Mrs. Lawton was very kind
when I was born. It's too bad Mrs. Lawton's dead. She'd be a nice friend
for maman."

"Perhaps your mother is asking Mr. Lawton's advice about the investment
of money."

He had been observing his wife closely, but it was more and more apparent
that if Mr. Lawton held the key to her mother's past she had not been
informed of the fact. She answered indifferently:

"Possibly. One can get much higher interest out here than in France, and
maman would never invest money without the best advice. She loves me, but
money next. Oh, là! là!"

"Has she said anything more about going back to Rouen?"

"I didn't have a word with her alone yesterday, but I'll ask her to-day.
Poor maman! I fancy the novelty has worn off here, and she would really
be happier with her own people and customs. She hates traveling, like all
the French; but don't you think that, after a bit we shall be able to go
over to Europe at least once a year?"

"I am sure of it. And while I am attending to business in London you
could visit your mother in Rouen. Tell her that one way or another I'll
manage it."

And this seemed to him an ideal arrangement!


II

When they left the table and walked through the more luxurious part of
the court, they saw Madame Delano alone and enthroned as usual in the
largest but most upright of the armchairs. And as ever she watched under
her fat drooping eyelids the passing throng of smartly dressed women,
hurrying men, sauntering, staring tourists. Here and there under the
palms sat small groups of men, leaning forward, talking in low earnest
tones, their faces, whether of the keen, narrow, nervous, or of the
fleshy, heavy, square-jawed, unimaginative, aggressive, ruthless type,
equally expressing that intense concentration of mind which later would
make their luncheon a living torment.

Hélène threw herself into a chair beside her mother and fondled her hand.
Ruyler noted that after Madame Delano's surprised smile of welcome she
darted a keen glance of apprehension from one to the other, and her tight
little mouth relaxed uncontrollably in its supporting walls of flesh. But
she lowered her lids immediately and looked approvingly at her daughter,
who in her new gown of gray, with gray hat and gloves and shoes, was a
dainty and refreshing picture of Spring. Then she looked at Ruyler with
what he fancied was an expression of relief.

"I wonder you do not do this oftener," she said.

"I never know until the last moment when or where I shall be able to take
lunch, and then I often have to meet three or four men. Such is life in
the city of your adoption."

"There is no city in the world where women are so abominably idle and
useless!" And at the moment, whatever Madame Delano may have been, her
voice and mien were those of a virtuous and outraged bourgeoisie. "You
are all very well, Ruyler, but if I had known what the life of a rich
young woman was in this town, I'd have married Hélène to a serious young
man of her own class in Rouen; a husband who would have given her
companionship in a normal civilized life, who would have taken care of
her as every young wife should be taken care of, and who would have
insisted upon at least two children as a matter of course. With us The
Family is a religion. Here it is an incident where it is not an
accident."

Ruyler, who was still standing, looked down at his mother-in-law with
profound interest. He had never heard her express herself at such length
before. "Do you think I fail as a husband?" he asked humbly. "God knows
I'd like to give my wife about two-thirds of my time, but at least I have
perfect confidence in her. I should soon cease to care for a wife I was
obliged to watch."

"Young things are young things." Madame Delano looked at Hélène, who had
turned very white and had lowered her own lids to hide the consternation
in her eyes. But as her mother ceased speaking she raised them in swift
appeal to Ruyler.

"Maman says I coquette too much," she said plaintively, and Price
wondered if a slight movement under the hem of Madame Delano's long
skirts meant that the toe of a little gray shoe were boring into one of
the massive plinths of his mother-in-law. "But tell him, maman, that you
don't really mean it. I can't have Price jealous. That would be too
humiliating. I'm afraid I do flirt as naturally as I breathe, but Price
knows I haven't a thought for a man on earth but him." The color had
crept back into her cheeks, but there was still anxiety in her soft black
eyes, and Price was sure that the little pointed toe once more made its
peremptory appeal.

Madame Delano looked squarely at her son-in-law.

"That's all right--so far," she said grimly. "Hélène is devoted to
you. But so have many other young wives been to busy American husbands.
Now, take my advice, and give her more of your companionship before it
is too late.  Watch over her . There always comes a time--a
turning-point--European husbands understand, but American husbands are
fools. Woman's loyalty, fed on hope only, turns to resentment; and then
her separate life begins. Now, I've warned you. Go back to your office,
where, no doubt, your clerks are hanging out of the windows, wondering if
you are dead and the business wrecked. I want to talk to Hélène."


III

In spite of his wise old French mother-in-law's insinuations, Ruyler felt
lighter of heart as he left the hotel and walked toward his office than
he had since Sunday. Of two things he was certain: there was no ugly
understanding between the mother and daughter over that unspeakable past,
and Madame Delano's new attitude toward her daughter was merely the
result of an over-sophisticated mother's apprehensions: those of a woman
who was looking in upon smart society for the first time and found it
alarming, and--unwelcome, but inevitable thought--peculiarly dangerous to
a young and beautiful creature with wild and lawless blood in her veins.

However, it was patent that so far her apprehensions were merely the
result of a rare imaginative flight, the result, no doubt, of her own
threatened exposure. Once more he admired her courage in returning to San
Francisco, and as he recalled the covert air of cynical triumph, with
which she had accepted his offer for her daughter's hand, he made no
doubt that one object had been to play a sardonic joke on the city she
must hate.

He renewed his determination to keep what guard he could over his young
wife, and wondered if his brother Harold, who also had elected to enter
the old firm, could not be induced to come out and take over a certain
share of the responsibility. The young man had paid him a visit a year
ago and been enraptured with life in California.

True, he was accustomed to make quick decisions without consulting any
one, and he should find a partner irksome, but he was beginning to
realize acutely that business, even to an American brain, packed with its
traditions and energies, was not even the half of life, should be a means
not an end; he set his teeth as he walked rapidly along Montgomery Street
and vowed that he would keep his domestic happiness if he had to retire
on what was available of his own fortune. He even wondered if it would
not be wise to buy a fruit ranch, where he and Hélène could share equally
in the management, and begin at once to raise a family. They both loved
outdoor life, and this life of complete frivolity, in which she seemed to
be hopelessly enmeshed, might before long corrode her nature and blast
the mental aspirations that still survived in that untended soil. When
this great merging deal was over he should be free to decide.




CHAPTER VIII


I

He arrived at home on the following afternoon at six and was
immediately rung up by Spaulding, who demanded an interview. It was not
worth while going down town again, as Hélène was out and would no doubt
return only in time to dress for dinner. They were to dine at half-past
seven and go to the play afterward. He told Spaulding to take a taxi
and come to the house.

Nothing had occurred meanwhile to cause him anxiety. He had taken Hélène
out to the Cliff House to dinner the night before, and afterward to see
the road-houses, whose dancing is so painfully proper early in the
evening. Polly Roberts had come into the most notorious of them at
eleven, chaperoning a party, which included Aileen Lawton, a girl as
restless and avid of excitement as herself. Rex Roberts and several other
young men had been in attendance, and Polly had begged Ruyler to stay on
and let his wife see something of "real life."

"This is one of the sights of the world, you know," she said, puffing her
cigarette smoke into his face. "It's  too  middle-class to be shocked,
and not to see occasionally what you really cannot get anywhere else.
Why, there'll even be a lot of tourists here later on, and these dancers
don't do the real Apache until about one. At least leave Hélène with me,
if you care more for bed than fun."

But Ruyler had merely laughed and taken his wife home. Hélène had made
no protest; on the contrary had put her arm through his in the car and
her head on his shoulder, vowing she was worn out, and glad to go home.
It was only afterward that it occurred to him that she had clung to him
that night.

Spaulding entered the library without taking off his hat, and chewing a
toothpick vigorously. He began to talk at once, stretching himself out in
a Morris chair, and accepting a cigar. This time Price smoked with him.

"Well," said the detective, "it's like the game of button, button, who's
got the button? Sometimes I think I'm getting a little warmer and then I
go stone cold. But I've found out a few things, anyhow. How tall should
you say Madame Delano is? I've only seen her sitting on her throne there
in the Palace Court lookin' like an old Sphinx that's havin' a laugh all
to herself."

"About five feet ten."

"The Mother Superior said six feet, but no doubt when she had figger
instead of flesh she looked taller. Well, I've discovered no less than
five tall handsome brunettes that sparkled here in the late Eighties and
early Nineties, but it's the deuce and all to get an exact description
out of anybody, especially when quite a few years have elapsed. Most
people don't see details, only effects. That's what we detectives come up
against all the time. So, whether these ladies were five feet eight, five
feet ten, or six feet, whether they had large features or small, big
hands and feet or fine points, or whether they added on all the inches
they yearned for by means of high heels or style, is beyond me. But here
they are."

He took his neat little note-book from his pocket and was about to read
it, when Ruyler interrupted him.

"But surely you know whether these women were French or not?"

"Aw, that's just what you can't always find out. Lots of 'em pretend to
be, and others--if they come from good stock in the old country--want you
to forget it. But the queens generally run to French names, as havin' a
better commercial value than Mary Jane or Ann Maria. One of these was
Marie Garnett, who wasn't much on her own but spun the wheel in Jim's
joint down on Barbary Coast, which was raided just so often for form's
sake. She always made a quick getaway, was never up in court, and died
young. Gabrielle ran an establishment down on Geary Street and was one of
the swellest lookers and swellest togged dames in her profession till the
drink got her. I can't find that she ever hooked up to a James or any one
else. Pauline-Marie was another razzle-dazzle who swooped out here from
nowhere and burrowed into quite a few fortunes and put quite a few of our
society leaders into mourning. She disappeared and I can't trace her, but
she seems to have been the handsomest of the bunch, and was fond of
showing herself at first nights, dressed straight from Paris, until some
of our war-hardened 'leaders' called upon the managers in a body and
threatened never to set foot inside their doors again unless she was kept
out, and the managers succumbed. Then there was the friend of a rich
Englishman, whose first name I haven't been able to get hold of. They
lived first at Santa Barbara, then loafed up and down the coast for a
year or two, spending quite a time in San Francisco. She was 'foreign
looking' and a stunner, all right. All of these dames drifted out about
the same time--"

"What was the Englishman's name?"

"J. Horace Medford. Front name may or may not have been James. I doubt if
his name could be found on any deeds, even in the south, where there was
no fire. He doesn't seem to have bought any property or transacted any
business. Just lived on a good-sized income. Of course, all the hotel
registers here were burnt, but I wired to Santa Barbara and Monterey and
got what I have given you.

"He had a yacht, and he took the woman with him everywhere. There was
always a flutter when they appeared at the theater. Of course she went by
his name, but as he never presented a letter all the time he was here and
it was quite obvious he could have brought all he wanted, and as men are
always 'on' anyhow, there was but one conclusion."

"Where did he bank? They might have his full name."

"Bank of California, but his remittances were sent to order of J. Horace
Medford, and, of course, he signed his cheques the same way."

"That sounds the most likely of the lot--and the most hopeful."

"Well, haven't handed you the fifth yet, and to my mind she's the most
likely of all. Ever hear of James Lawton's trouble with his wife?"

"Trouble? I thought she died."

"She--did--not. She went East suddenly about fifteen years ago, and soon
after a notice of her death appeared in the San Francisco papers. But
there was a tale of woe (for old Lawton) that I doubt if most of her own
crowd had even a suspicion of."

"Good heavens!" Ruyler recalled the apparent intimacy of his
mother-in-law and the senior member of the respectable firm of Lawton and
Cross. If "Madame Delano" were the former Mrs. Lawton, how many things
would be explained.

"This woman's name was Marie all right, and she was French, although she
seems to have been adopted by some people named Dubois and brought up in
California. She was quite the proper thing in high society, but the
trouble was that she liked another sort better. She was a regular
fly-by-night. It began when Norton Moore, a rotten limb of one of the
grandest trees in San Francisco Society--so respectable they didn't know
there was any side to life but their own--sneaked Mrs. Lawton and three
girls out of his mother's house one night when she was givin' a ball, put
'em in a hack and took 'em down to Gabrielle's. There they spent an hour
lookin' at Gabrielle's swell bunch dressed up and doin' the grand society
act with some of the men-about-town. Then they danced some and opened a
bottle or two.

"I never heard that this little jaunt hurt the girls any, but it woke up
something in Mrs. Lawton. After that--well, there are stories without
end. Won't take up your time tellin' them. The upshot was that one night
Lawton, who took a fling himself once in a while, met her at Gabrielle's
or some other joint, and she went East a day or two after. I suppose he
didn't get a divorce, partly on account of the kid--Aileen--partly
because he had no intention of trying his luck again."

"But is there any evidence that she had another child--that she
hid away?"

"No, but it might easy have been. This life went on for about eight
years, and it was at least five that she and Lawton merely lived under
the same roof for the sake of Aileen. They never did get on. That much,
at least, was well known. It might easy be--"

Ruyler made a rapid calculation. Aileen Lawton was just about three years
older than Hélène. She was fair like her father. There was no resemblance
between her and his wife, but the intimacy between them had been
spontaneous and had never lapsed. She had grown up quite unrestrained and
spoilt, and broken three engagements, and was always rushing about
proclaiming in one breath, that California was the greatest place on
earth and in the next that she should go mad if she didn't get out and
have a change. Another grievance was that although her father let her
have her own way, or rather did not pretend to control her, he gave her a
rather niggardly allowance for her personal expenses and she was supposed
to be heavily in debt. Ruyler thought he could guess where a good deal of
his wife's spare cash had gone to. He disliked Aileen Lawton as much as
he did Polly Roberts; more, if anything, because she might have been
clever and she chose to be a fool. Both of these intimate friends of his
wife were the reverse of the superb outdoor type he admired.

"Good Lord!" he said. "I don't think there's much choice."

But in a moment he shook his head. "Too many things don't connect. Where
did she get the money to go to her relations in Rouen--"

"He pensioned her off, of course."

"And the child? How did he consent to let her return here with a daughter
he probably never had heard of--"

"I figger out, either that she came into some money from a relation over
in France, or else she has something on the old boy, and wanting to come
back here and marry her daughter, she held him up. He's a pillar of the
church, been one of the Presidents of the Pacific-Union Club, has argued
cases before the Supreme Court that have been cabled all over the
country. When a man of that sort gets to Lawton's time of life he don't
want any scandals."

"All the same," said Ruyler positively, "I don't believe it. I think it
far more likely that he was a friend of Madame Delano's husband--assuming
that she had one--and that some money was left with him in trust for her
or the child."

"Well, it may be, but I incline to Lawton--"

"There's one person would know--"

"'Gene Bisbee. But I never went to that bunch yet for any information,
and I don't go this time except as a last resort. Of course he knows, and
that is one reason I believe she is Mrs. Lawton. He was Gabrielle's
maquereau for years--when he'd wrung enough out of her he set up for
himself--Well, I ain't through yet, by a long sight. Beliefs ain't
proof." He rose slowly from the deep chair, stretched himself, and
settled his hat firmly on his head.

"What's this I hear about a wonderful ruby your wife wore up to Gwynne's
the other night? Gosh! I'd like to see a sparkler like that."

"Why, by all means."

Ruyler swung the bookcase outward, opened the safe and handed him the
ruby. Spaulding regarded it with bulging eyes, and touched it with his
finger tips much as he would a newborn babe. "Some stone!" he said, as he
handed it back, "but why in thunder don't you keep it in a safe deposit
box? There are crooks that can crack any safe, and if they got wise to
this--oh, howdy, ma'am--"

Hélène had come in and stood behind the two men.

Spaulding snatched off his hat and she acknowledged her husband's
introduction graciously. She was dressed for the evening in white. Her
eyes looked abnormally large, and she kept dropping her lids as if to
keep them from setting in a stare. Her lovely mouth with its soft curves
was faded and set. The whole face was almost as stiff as a mask, and even
her graceful body was rigid. Ruyler saw Spaulding give her a sharp
"sizing-up" look, as he murmured,

"Well, so long, Guv. See you to-morrow. Hope the man'll turn out all
right after all."

"I hope so. He's a good chap otherwise."

"Good night, ma'am. Tell your husband to put that ruby in a safe
deposit box."

"Oh, nobody knows the safe is there except Mr. Ruyler and myself--"

"There have been safes hidden behind bookcases before," said Spaulding
dryly. "And crooks, like all the other pests of the earth, just drift
naturally to this coast. If I were you I'd have a detective on hand
whenever you wear that bit o' glass--not at a friendly affair like the
Gwynnes' dinner, of course, but--"

"Good idea!" exclaimed Ruyler. "My wife will wear the ruby to the
Thornton fête on the fourteenth. Will you be on hand to guard it?"

"Won't I? About half our force is engaged for that blow-out, but no one
but yours truly shall be guardian angel for the ruby. Well, good night
once more, and good luck."

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as the detective had gone Ruyler drew his wife to him anxiously,
"What is it, Hélène? You look--well, you don't look yourself!"

"I have a headache," she said irritably. "Perhaps I'm developing nerves.
I do wish you would take me to New York. Other women get away from this
town once in a while."

"But you told me on Sunday that you adored California, that it was like
fairy land--"

"Oh, all the women out here bluff themselves and everybody else just
so long and then suddenly go to pieces. It's a wonderful state, but
what a life! What a life! Surely I was made for something better. I
don't wonder--"

"What?" he asked sharply.

"Oh, nothing. I feel ungrateful, of course. I really should be quite
happy. Think if I had to go back to Rouen to live--after this taste of
freedom, and beauty--for California has all the beauties of youth as well
as its idiocies and vices--"

"There is not the remotest danger of your ever being obliged to live in
Rouen again--"

"Oh, I don't know. You might get tired of me. We might fight like cat and
dog for want of common interests, of something to talk about. You would
never take to drink like so many of the men, but I might--well, I'm glad
dinner is ready at last."

But she played with her food. That she was repressing an intense and
mounting excitement Ruyler did not doubt, and he also suspected that she
wished to broach some particular subject from which she turned in panic.
They were alone after coffee had been served, and he said abruptly:

"What is it, Hélène? Do you want money? I have an idea that Polly Roberts
and Aileen Lawton borrow heavily from you, and that they may have cleaned
you out completely on the first--"

"How dear of you to guess--or rather to get so close. It's worse than
that. I--that is--well--poor Polly went quite mad over a pearl necklace
at Shreve's and they told her to take it and wear it for a few days,
thinking, I suppose, she would never give it up and would get the money
somehow. She--oh, it's too dreadful--she lost it--and she dares not tell
Rex--he's lost quite a lot of money lately--and she's mad with
fright--and I told her--"

"Where did she lose it? It's not easy to lose a necklace, especially when
the clasp is new."

"She thinks it was stolen from her neck at the theater--you heard what
that man said."

"Ah! What was the price of the necklace?"

"Twenty thousand dollars. The pearls weren't so very large, of course,
but Polly never had had a pearl necklace--"

"I'll let her have the money to pay for it on one condition--that it is a
transaction, between Roberts and myself--"

"No! No! Not for anything!"

"I've lent him money before--"

"But he'd never forgive Polly. He--he's one of those men who make an
awful fuss on the first of every month when his wife's bills come in."

"There must be a bass chorus on the first of every month in San
Francisco--"

"Oh, please don't jest. She must have this money."

"She may have it--on those terms. I'll have no business dealings with
women of the Polly Roberts sort. That would be the last I'd ever see of
the twenty thousand--"

"I never thought you were stingy!"

Ruyler, in spite of his tearing anxiety, laughed outright. "Is that your
idea of how the indulgent American husband becomes rich?"

"Oh--of course I wouldn't have you lose such a sum. I really have learned
the value of money in the abstract, although I can't care for it as much
as men do."

"I have no great love of money, but there is a certain difference between
a miser and a levelheaded business man--"

"Price, I must have that money. Polly--oh, I am afraid she will
kill herself!"

"Not she. A more selfish little beast never breathed. She'll squeeze the
money out of some one, never fear! But I think I'll lock up your jewels
in case you are tempted to raise money on them for her--Darling!"

Hélène, without a sound, had fainted.




CHAPTER IX


They had intended to go to the theater but Ruyler put her to bed at
once. He offered to read to her, but she turned her back on him with
cold disdain, and he went to the little invisible cupboard where she
kept her own jewels and took out the heavy gold box which had been the
wedding present of one of his California business friends who owned a
quartz mine.

"I shall put this in the safe," he said incisively, "for, while I admire
your stanchness in friendship, even for such an unworthy object as Polly
Roberts, I do not propose that my wife shall be selling or pawning her
jewels for any reason whatever. Think over the proposal I made
downstairs. If Polly is willing I'll lend Roberts the money to-morrow."

She had thrown an arm over her face and she made no reply. He went down
stairs and put the box in the safe. It occurred to him that she had
watched him open and close the safe several times but she certainly never
had written the combination down, and it had taken him a long while to
commit it to memory himself.

He had glanced over the contents of the box before he locked it in. The
jewels were all there, the string of pearls that he had given her on
their marriage day, a few wedding presents, and several rings and
trinkets he had bought for her since. The value was perhaps twenty
thousand dollars, for he had told her that she must wait several years
before he could give her the jewels of a great lady. When she was thirty,
and really needed them to make up for fading charms--it had been one of
their pleasant little jokes.

As Ruyler set the combination he sighed and wondered whether their days
of joking were over. Their life had suddenly shot out of focus and it
would require all his ingenuity and patience, aided by friendly
circumstance, to swing it into line again. He did not believe a word of
the necklace story. Somebody was blackmailing the poor child. If he could
only find out who! He made up his mind suddenly to put this problem also
in the hands of Spaulding for solution. The question of his
mother-in-law's antecedents was important enough, but that of his wife's
happiness and his own was paramount.

He decided to go to the theater himself, for he was in no condition for
sleep or the society of men at the club, nor could any book hold his
attention. He prayed that the play would be reasonably diverting.

He walked down town and as he entered the lobby of the Columbia at the
close of the first act he saw 'Gene Bisbee and D.V. Bimmer, who was now
managing a hotel in San Francisco, standing together. He also saw Bisbee
nudge Bimmer, and they both stared at him openly, the famous hotel man
with some sympathy in his wise secretive eyes, the reformed peer of the
underworld with a certain speculative contempt.

Ruyler, to his intense irritation, felt himself flushing, and wondered if
the man's regard might be translated: "Just how much shall I be able to
touch him for?" He wished he would show his hand and dissipate the
damnable web of mystery which Fate seemed weaving hourly out of her
bloated pouch, but he doubted if Bisbee, or whoever it was that tormented
his wife, would approach him save as a last resource. They were clever
enough to know that her keenest desire would be to keep the disgraceful
past from the knowledge of her husband, rather than from a society
seasoned these many years to erubescent pasts.

Moreover it is always easier to blackmail a woman than a man, and Price
Ruyler could not have looked an easy mark to the most optimistic of
social brigands.

He found it impossible to fix his mind on the play; the cues of the first
act eluded him, and the characters and dialogue were too commonplace to
make the story negligible.

At the end of the second act Ruyler made up his mind to go home and try
to coax his wife back into her customary good temper, pet her and make
her forget her little tragedy. He still hesitated to broach the subject
to her directly, but it was possible that by some diplomatically
analogous tale he could surprise her into telling him the truth.

During the long drive he turned over in his mind the data Spaulding had
placed before him during the afternoon. He rejected the theory that
Madame Delano was Mrs. Lawton as utterly fantastic, but admitted a
connection. Hélène had spoken more than once of Mrs. Lawton's kindness to
"maman" when her baby was born during her "enforced stay in San
Francisco," and it was quite possible that the two had been friends, and
that the young mother had adopted the name of Dubois when calling upon
the nuns of the convent at St. Peter, either because it would naturally
occur to her, or from some deeper design which, he could not fathom....

Yes, the connection with Mrs. Lawton was indisputable and it remained for
him to "figger out" as Spaulding would say, which of these women, the
gambler's wife, the notorious "Madam," Gabrielle, the briefly coruscating
Pauline Marie, or the Englishman's mistress, a woman of Mrs. Lawton's
position would be most likely to befriend.

The first three might be dismissed without argument. She had been no
frequenter of "gambling joints" whatever her peccadilloes; Gabrielle,
he happened to know, had died some eight or ten years ago, and
Mademoiselle Pauline Marie, if she had had a child, which was extremely
doubtful, was the sort that sends unwelcome offspring post haste to the
foundling asylum.

There remained only the spurious Mrs. Medford, and she was the
probability on all counts. What more likely than that she and Mrs. Lawton
had met at one of the great winter hotels in Southern California, and
foregathered? Certainly they would be congenial spirits.

When the baby came Mrs. Lawton would naturally see her through her
trouble, and advise her later what to do with the child. No doubt,
Medford found it in the way.

After that Ruyler could only fumble. Did Medford desert the woman,
driving her on the stage?--or elsewhere? Did they start for Japan, and
did he die on the voyage? Did he merely give the woman a pension and tell
her to go back to Rouen, or to the devil? It was positive that when
Hélène was five years old Madame Delano had gone back to her relatives
with some trumped up story and been received by them.

Moreover, this theory coincided with, his belief that Hélène's father
was a gentleman. No doubt he had been already married when he met the
young French girl, superbly handsome, and intelligent--possibly at one
of the French watering places, even in Rouen itself, swarming with
tourists in Summer. They might have met in the spacious aisles of the
Cathedral, she risen from her prayers, he wandering about, Baedeker in
hand, and fallen in love at sight. One of Earth's million romances,
regenerating the aged planet for a moment, only to sink back and
disappear into her forgotten dust.

His own romance? What was to be the end of that!

But he returned to his argument. He wanted a coherent story to tell his
wife, and he wanted also to believe that his wife's father had been a
gentleman.

Medford, like so many of his eloping kind, had made instinctively for
California with the beautiful woman he loved but could not marry. Santa
Barbara, Ruyler had heard, had been the favorite haven for two
generations of couples fleeing from irking bonds in the societies of
England and the continent of Europe. Southern California combined a wild
independence with a languor that blunted too sensitive nerves, offered an
equable climate with months on end of out of door life, boating,
shooting, riding, driving, motoring, romantic excursions, and even sport
if a distinguished looking couple played the game well and told a
plausible story.

Breeding was a part of Ruyler's religion, as component in his code as
honor, patriotism, loyalty, or the obligation of the strong to protect
the weak. Far better the bend sinister in his own class than a legitimate
parent of the type of 'Gene Bisbee or D.V. Bimmer. Ruyler was a "good
mixer" when business required that particular form of diplomacy, and the
familiarities of Jake Spaulding left his nerves unscathed, but in bone
and brain cells he was of the intensely respectable aristocracy of
Manhattan Island and he never forgot it. He had surrendered to a girl of
no position without a struggle, and made her his wife, but it is doubtful
if he would even have fallen in love with her if she had been underbred
in appearance or manner. He had never regretted his marriage for a
moment, not even since this avalanche of mystery and portending scandal
had descended upon him; if possible he loved his troubled young wife more
than ever--with a sudden instinct that worse was to come he vowed that
nothing should ever make him love her less.

When he arrived at his house he found two notes on the hall table
addressed to himself. The first was from Hélène and read:

"Polly telephoned that she would send her car for me to go down to the
Fairmont and dance. I cannot sleep so I am going.  She cannot sleep
either ! Forgive me if I was cross, but I am terribly worried for her.
Don't wait up for me. Hélène."

He read this note with a frown but without surprise. It was to be
expected that she would seek excitement until her present fears were
allayed and her persecutors silenced.

He determined to order Spaulding to have her shadowed constantly for at
least a fortnight and note made of every person in whose company she
appeared to be at all uneasy, whether they were of her own set or not. It
would also be worth while to have Madame Delano's rooms watched, for it
was possible that she would summon Hélène there to meet Bisbee or others
of his ilk.

Then he picked up the other note. It was from Spaulding, and as he read
it all his finespun theories vanished and once more he was adrift on an
uncharted sea without a landmark in sight.

"Dear Sir," began the detective, who was always formal on paper. "I've
just got the information required from Holbrook Centre. We didn't half
believe there was such a place, if you remember? Well there is, and
according to the parish register Marie Jeanne Perrin was married to James
Delano on July 25th, 1891. She was there, visiting some French
relations--they went back soon after--and he had left there when he was
about sixteen and had only come back that once to see his mother, who was
dying. Nothing seems to have been known about him in his home town except
a sort of rumor that he was a bad lot and lived somewheres in California.
Can you beat it? But don't think I'm stumped. I'm working on a new line
and I'm not going to say another word until I've got somewheres.

"Yours truly,

"J. SPAULDING."

"Delano's father was a Forty-niner, and lived in California till 1860,
when he went home to H. C. and died soon after. There were wild stories
about him, too."




CHAPTER X


I

During the next few days Ruyler saw little of his wife. He was obliged to
take two business trips out of town and as he could not return until ten
o'clock at night he advised her to have company to dinner and take her
guests to the play. But she preferred to dine with Polly Roberts and
Aileen Lawton, and she spent her days for the most part at Burlingame,
motoring down with one or more of her friends, or sent for by some
enthusiastic girl admirer already established there for the summer.

Ruyler was quite willing to forego temporarily his plan of personal
guardianship, as the more she roamed abroad unattended the better could
Spaulding watch her associates. The detective had his agents in society,
as well as in the Palace Hotel, and on the third day he sent a brief note
to Ruyler announcing that he had "lit on to something" that would make
his employer's "hair curl, but no more at present from yours truly."

"This time," he added, "I'm on the right track and know it. No more fancy
theories. But I won't say a word till I can deliver the goods. Give your
wife all the rope you can."

Price and Hélène met briefly and amiably and she did not again broach the
subject of the loan for her friend, nor did she ask for her jewels. It
was apparent that she was proudly determined to conceal whatever terrors
or even worries that might haunt her, but the effort deprived her of all
her native vivacity; she was almost formal in manner and her white face
grew more like a classic mask daily.

On the evening before the Thornton fête, however, Price was able to dine
at home. They met at table and he saw at once that she either had
recovered her spirits or was making a deliberate attempt to create the
impression of a carefree young woman happy in a tête-à-tête dinner with a
busy husband.

Her talk for the most part was of the great entertainment at San Mateo.
The weather promised to be simply magnificent. Wasn't that exactly like
Flora Thornton's luck? The immense grounds were simply swarming with
workmen; wagon-loads of all sorts of things went through the gates after
every train--simply one procession after another; but no one else could
so much as get her nose through those gates.

Hélène, with all her old childish glee, related how she and Aileen, Polly
(who apparently had forgotten her impending doom), and two or three other
girls, had called up Mrs. Thornton on the telephone every ten minutes for
an hour--pretending it was long distance to make sure of a personal
response--and begged to be allowed to go over and see the preparations,
until finally, in a towering rage, her ladyship had replied that if they
called her again she would withdraw her invitations.

"How we did long for an airship. It would have been such fun, for she
does so disapprove of all of us; thinks us a little flock of silly geese.
Well, we are, I guess, but wasn't she one herself once? She has a pretty
hard time even now making life interesting for herself--out here, anyhow.

"Yesterday we motored down to Menlo and dropped in at the Maynards. There
were a lot of the props of San Francisco society, all as rich as croesus,
sitting on the veranda crocheting socks or sacks for a crop of new babies
that are due. One or two were hemstitching lawn, or embroidering a
monogram, or something else equally useless or virtuous. They were
talking mild gossip, and didn't even have powder on. It was ghastly--"

"Hélène," said Ruyler abruptly, "what do you think is the secret of
happiness--I mean, of course, the enduring sort--perhaps content would be
the better word. Happiness is too dependent upon love, and love was never
meant for daily food. You are not by nature frivolous, and you are
capable of thought. Have you ever given any to the secret of content?"

"Yes, work," she answered promptly. "Everybody should have his daily job,
prescribed either by the state or by necessity; but something he must do
if both he and society would continue to exist."

Ruyler elevated his eyebrows and looked at her curiously. "Socialism. I
didn't know you had ever heard of it."

"Aileen and I are not such fools as we look--as you were good enough to
intimate just now. We went to a series of lectures early last winter over
at the University, on Socialism--a lot of us formed a class, but all
except Aileen and I dropped out.

"We continued to read for a time after the lectures were over, but of
course that didn't last. One drops everything for want of stimulus, and
when one begins to flutter again one is lost.

"But I heard and read and thought enough to deduce that the only vital
interest in life after one's secret happiness--which one would not dare
spread out too thin if one could in this American life--is necessary work
well done. And that is quite different from those fussy interests and
fads we create or take up for the sake of thinking we are busy and
interested.

"Polly's mother once told me she never was so happy in her life as during
those weeks after the earthquake and fire when all the servants had run
away and she had to cook for the family out in the street on a stove they
bought down in a little shop in Polk Street and set up and surrounded on
three sides by 'inside blinds.' She happened to have a talent for
cooking, and without her the family would have starved. Polly tied a
towel round her head and did the housework, or stood in a line and got
the daily rations from the Government. She never thought once of--"

"Of what?"

"Oh, of doing anything rather than expire of boredom. She and Rex had
been married a year and were living at home. Rex and Mr. Carter helped
excavate down in the business district, as the working class wouldn't
lift a finger as long as the Government was feeding them."

"There you are! Their ideal is complete leisure, and that of our delicate
products of the highest civilization--compulsory jobs! What does progress
mean but the leisure to enjoy the arts and all the finer fruits of
progress? What else do we men really work for?"

"Progress has gone too far and defeated its own ends. Every healthy human
being should be forced to work six hours a day.

"That would leave eight for sleep and ten for enjoyment of the arts and
luxuries. Then we really should enjoy them, and if we couldn't have them
unless we did our six hours' stint, ennui and the dissipations that it
breeds would be unknown.

"I can tell you it is demoralizing, disintegrating, to wake up morning
after morning--about ten o'clock!--and know that you have nothing worth
while to do for another day--for all the days!--that you have no place in
the world except as an ornament! Women of limited incomes and a family of
growing children have enough, to do, of course--too much--they never can
feel superfluous and demoralized--except by envy--but as for us! Why, I
can tell you, it is a marvel we don't all go straight to the devil."

They were alone with the coffee, and she was pounding the table with her
little fist. Her cheeks were deeply flushed and her black somber eyes
were opening and closing rapidly, as if alternately magnetized by some
ugly vision and sweeping it aside.

Price watched her with deep interest and deeper anxiety. "A good many
women go to the devil," he said. "But you are not that sort."

"Oh, I don't know. I never could get up enough interest in another man to
solve the problem in the usual way--but there are other
resources--I--well--"

"What?" Price sat up very straight.

"Oh, dance ourselves into tuberculosis," she said lightly, and dropping
her eyelashes. "And tuberculosis of the mind, certainly. On the whole, I
think I prefer physical to spiritual death....

"However--I found out one thing to-day. The dancing is to be out of
doors. There will be an immense arbor or something of the sort erected
on the lawn above the sunken garden. My gown is a dream and I shall wear
the ruby."

"Yes," he said smiling. "You shall wear the ruby. But you must expect me
to keep very close to you--"

"The closer the better." She smiled charmingly. "Have you tried on
your costume?"

"I haven't even looked at it. Who am I?"

"Caesar Borgia. You are not much like him yourself, darling, but I
thought he was not so very unlike modern American business, as a whole."

Ruyler laughed. "Why not Machiavelli? But as no doubt it is black velvet,
much puffed and slashed, I may hope it will be becoming to my nondescript
fairness. You must promise not to wander off for long walks with any of
your admirers. Not that I fear the admirers, but the thieves that are
bound to get into that crowd one way or another. They have a way of
unclasping necklaces even of the most circumspect wives in the company of
not too absorbing men."

Her eyes opened and flashed, but he had no time to analyze that fleeting
expression before she was promising volubly not to wander from the
illuminated spaces.

       *       *       *       *       *

He interrupted her suddenly. They were in the library now, and sat down
on a little sofa in front of the window. The moon was high and brilliant
and the great expanse of water with the high clusters of lights on the
islands, the sharp hard silhouette of the encircling mountains, the green
and silver stars so high above, the moving golden dots of an incoming
liner from Japan, the long rows of arc lights along the shore, made a
landscape of the night that Mrs. Thornton with all her millions hardly
could rival.

"Are you not grateful for this?" he asked whimsically and a little
wistfully.

"Oh, Price, dear, I am more grateful than you will ever know. I have not
a fault on earth to find with you. You would be the prince of the fairy
tale if you were not so busy.

"But that is the tragedy. You are busy--I am not."

"Well, let us have the personal solution--one that fits ourselves. You
have time to think it out. I, alas! have not." He took her hand and
fondled it, hoping for her confidence.

"I don't know." She had a deep rich voice and she could make it very
intense. "I only know there must--must--be a change--if--if--I am
to--Can't you take me abroad for a year? That might not be work, but at
least I should be learning some thing--I have traveled almost not at
all--and, at least, I should have you."

"But later? Most of your friends have spent a good deal of time in
Europe. I doubt if any state in the Union goes to Europe as often as
California! They are all the more discontented when they come back here
to vegetate--as Mrs. Thornton would express it.

"It would be a blessed interval, but no more."

"We should have time to think out a new and different life....

"You know--in the class I come from--in France--the women are the
partners of their husbands. Even in the higher bourgeoisie, that is,
where they still are in business, not living on great inherited
fortunes--

"My uncle had a small silk house in Rouen, and my aunt kept the books
and attended to all the correspondence. He always said she was the
cleverer business man of the two; but French women have a real genius
for business. Some of our great ladies help their husbands manage
their estates.

"It is only the few that live for pleasure and glitter in the most
glittering city in the world that have furnished the novelists the
material to give the world a false impression of France.

"The majority live such sober, useful, busy lives that only the highest
genius could make people read about them.

"Of course, young girls dream of something far more brilliant, and wait
eagerly for the husband who shall deliver them from their narrow
restricted little spheres... perhaps take them to the great world of
Paris; but they settle down, even in Paris, and devote themselves to
their husbands' interests, which are their own, and to their children....

"That is it! They are indispensable--not as women, but as partners. I
barely know what your business is about--only that you are in some
tremendous wholesale commission thing with tentacles that reach half
round the world.

"Only the wives of politicians are any real help to their husbands in
this country. Isabel Gwynne! What a help she will be--has been--to Mr.
Gwynne. But then she was always busy. When her uncle died he left her
that little ranch and scarcely anything else, she took to raising
chickens--not to fuss about and fill in her time, but to keep a roof over
her head and have enough to eat and wear. I doubt if she ever was bored
in her life."

"I can't take you into the business, sweetheart," said Ruyler slowly.
"For that would violate the traditions of a very old conservative house.
But I can quite see that something must be done....

"I married you to make you happy and to be happy myself. I do not intend
that our marriage shall be a failure. It is possible that Harold would
consent to come out here and take my place. The business no longer
requires any great amount of initiative, but the most unremitting
vigilance. I have thought--it has merely passed through my mind--but you
might hate it--how would you like it if I bought a large fruit ranch,
several thousand acres, and put up a canning factory besides? I would
make you a full partner and you would have to give to your share of the
work considerably more than six hours of the day--

"We could build a large, plain, comfortable house, take all our books and
pictures, subscribe to all the newspapers, magazines and reviews, keep up
with everything that is going on in the world, have house parties once in
a while, come to town for a few weeks in summer for the plays.

"We should live practically an out-of-door life--if you preferred we
could buy a cattle ranch in the south. That would mean the greater part
of the day in the saddle--

"How does it appeal to you?"

He had turned off the electricity, but as he fumbled with his
embryonic idea he saw her eyes sparkle and a light of passionate hope
dawn on her face.

"Oh, I should love it! But love it! Especially the fruit ranch. That
would be like France--our orchards are as wonderful as yours, even if
nothing could be as big as a California ranch--

"That is, if it would not be a makeshift. Another form of playing at
life."

"I can assure you that we will have to make it pay or go to the wall. My
father would probably disinherit me, for it would be breaking another
tradition, and he compliments me by believing that I am the best business
man in the firm at present.

"My only capital would be such of my fortune as is not tied up in the
House--about a hundred thousand dollars in Government bonds. Of course,
in time, if all goes well, and California does not have another
setback--if business improves all over the world--I shall be able to take
the rest of my money out, that I put into this end of the business after
the fire; but that may be ten years hence. I shouldn't even ask for
interest on it--that would be the only compensation I could offer for
deserting the firm.

"Perhaps I had better buy a cattle ranch. Then, if we fail, I shall at
least have had the training of a cowboy and can hire out."

Hélène laughed and clapped her hands.

"Fail? You? But I should help you to make it a success--I should be
really necessary?"

"Indispensable. Either you or another partner."

"No! No! I shall be the partner--"

"And you mean that you would be willing to bury your youth, your beauty,
on a ranch? I have heard bitter confidences out here from women forced to
waste their youth on a ranch. You are one of the fine flowers of
civilization--"

"That soon wither in the hothouse atmosphere. I wish to become a hardy
annual. And when the ranch was running like a clock we could take a month
or two in Europe every year or so--"

"Rather! And I could show you off--Bother! I'll not answer."

The telephone bell on the little table in the corner (his own private
wire) rang so insistently that Ruyler finally was magnetized reluctantly
across the room. He put the receiver to his ear and asked, "Well?" in his
most inhospitable tones.

The answer came in Spaulding's voice, and in a moment he sat down.

At the end of ten minutes he hung the receiver on the hook and returned
to find Hélène standing by the window, all the light gone from her eyes,
staring out at the hard brilliant scene with an expression of
hopelessness that had relaxed the very muscles of her face.

Ruyler was shocked, and more apprehensive than he had yet been. "Hélène!"
he exclaimed. "What is the matter? Surely you may confide in me if you
are in trouble."

"Oh, but I am not," she replied coldly. "Did I look odd? I was just
wondering how many really happy people there were behind those
lights--over on Belvedere, at Sausalito--the lights look so golden and
steady and sure--and glimpses of interiors at night are always so
fascinating--but I suppose most of the people are commonplace and just
dully discontented--"

"Well, I am afraid I have something to tell you that hardly will restore
your delightful gayety of a few moments ago. I am sorry--but--well, the
fact is I must leave for the north to-morrow morning and hardly shall be
able to return before the next night. I am really distressed. I wanted so
much to take you to-morrow night--"

"And I can't wear the ruby?" Her voice was shrill. Ruyler wondered if his
stimulated imagination fancied a note of terror in it.

"I--I--am afraid not--darling--"

"But that Spaulding man will be there to watch--"

"Unfortunately--I forgot to tell you--he cannot go--he is on an important
case. Besides--when I make a promise I usually keep it."

"But--but--" She stammered as if her brain were confused, then turned and
pressed her face to the window. "I suppose nothing matters," she said
dully. "Perhaps you will let me wear my own little ruby. After all, that
was maman's, and she gave it to me before I was married. I should like to
wear one jewel."

"You shall have all your jewels, if you will promise not to give them to
Polly Roberts or any one else."

"I promise."

He went over and opened the safe, and when he rose with the gold jewel
case he saw that she was standing behind him. Once more it flitted
through his mind that she had watched him manipulate the combination
several times, but he had little confidence in any but a professional
thief's ability to memorize such an involved assortment of figures as had
been invented for this particular safe. It was only once in a while that
he was not obliged to refer to the key that he carried in his pocketbook.

Nor was she looking at the safe, but staring upward at a maharajah,
covered with pearls of fantastic size. She took the box from his hand
with a polite word of thanks, offered her cheek to be kissed, and
left the room.

Price threw himself into a chair and rehearsed the instructions Spaulding
had given him.




CHAPTER XI


It was half-past eleven when Ruyler and Spaulding, masked and wearing
colored silk dominoes, entered the great gates of the Thornton estate in
San Mateo, the detective merely displaying something in his palm to the
stern guardians that kept the county rabble at bay.

The mob stood off rather grumblingly, for they would have liked to get
closer to that gorgeous mass of light they could merely glimpse through
the great oaks of the lower part of the estate, and to the music so
seductive in the distance.

They were not a rabble to excite pity, by any means. A few ragged tramps
had joined the crowd, possibly a few pickpockets from the city, watching
their opportunity to slip in behind one of the automobiles that brought
the guests from the station or from the estates up and down the valley.
They were, for the most part, trades-people from the little towns--San
Mateo, Redwood City--or the wives of the proletariat--or the servants of
the neighboring estates. But, although, they grumbled and envied, they
made no attempt to force their way in; it was only the light-fingered
gentry the police at the great iron gates were on the lookout for.

Ruyler, if his mind had been less harrowed with the looming and possibly
dire climax of his own secret drama, would have laughed aloud at this
melodramatic entrance to the grounds of one of his most intimate friends.
He and Spaulding had walked from the train, but they were not detained as
long as a gay party of young people from Atherton, who teased the police
by refusing to present their cards or lift their masks. Ruyler knew them
all, but they finally sped past him without even a glance of contempt for
mere foot passengers, even though they looked like a couple of dodging
conspirators.

He had met Spaulding at the station in San Francisco, and private
conversation on the crowded train had been impossible. When they had
walked a few yards along the wide avenue, as brilliant as day with its
thousands of colored lights concealed in the astonished pines, Ruyler sat
deliberately down upon a bench and motioned the detective to take the
seat beside him.

"It is time you gave me some sort of a hint," he said. "After all, it is
my affair--"

"I know, but as I said, you might not approve my methods, and if you
balk, all is up. We've got the chance of our lives. It's now or never."

"I do not at all like the idea that you may be forcing me into a position
where I may find myself doing something I shall be ashamed of for the
rest of my life."

Ruyler's tone was haughty. He did not relish being led round by the nose,
and his nerves were jumping.

"Now! Now!" said Spaulding soothingly, as he lit a cigar. "When you hire
a detective you hire him to do things you wouldn't do yourself; and if
you won't give him the little help he's got to have from you or quit,
what's the use of hiring him at all?

"I know perfectly well that nothing but your own eyes would convince you
of what it's up to me to prove--to say nothing of the fact that I count
on your entrance at the last minute to put an end to the whole bad
business. For it is a bad business--believe me. But not a word of that
now. You couldn't pry open my lips with a five dollar Havana."

"Well--you say you had a talk with Madame Delano to-day. Surely you can
tell me some of the things you have discovered."

"A whole lot. I've been waiting for the chance. Not that I got anything
out of her. She's one grand bluffer and no mistake. I take off my hat to
her. When I told her that I could lay hands on the proof that she was
Marie Garnett--although Jim had married her in his home town under his
own name--and that she'd gone home to France with the kid when it was
five, taking the cue from her friend, Mrs. Lawton, and sending word back
she was dead--"

"You were equally sure a few days ago that she was Mrs. Lawton--"

"That was just my constructive imagination on the loose. It was a lovely
theory, and I sort of hung on to it. But I had no real data to go on. Now
I've got the evidence that Jim Garnett died two months before the fire
burnt up pretty nearly all the records, and that his body was shipped
back to Holbrook Centre to be buried in the family plot. You see, he was
sick for some time out on Pacific Avenue, and his death was registered
where the fire didn't go--"

"But what put you on?" asked Ruyler impatiently. "I should almost rather
it had been any one else. He seems to have been about as bad a lot as
even this town ever turned out."

"He was, all right, and his father before him, although they came from
mighty fine folks back east. His father came out in '49 with the gold
rush crowd, panned out a good pile, and then, liking the life--San
Francisco was a gay little burg those days--opened one of the crack
gambling houses down on the Old Plaza. Plate glass windows you could look
through from outside if you thought it best to stay out, and see hundreds
of men playing at tables where the gold pieces--often slugs--were piled
as high as their noses, and hundreds more walking up and down the aisles
either waiting for a chance to sit, or hoping to appease their hunger
with the sight of so much gold. They didn't try any funny business, for
every gambler had a six-shooter in his hip pocket, and sometimes on the
table beside him.

"Sometimes men would walk out and shoot themselves on the sidewalk in
front of the windows, and not a soul inside would so much as look up.
Well, Delano the first had a short life but a merry one. He couldn't keep
away from the tables himself, and first thing he knew he was broke, sold
up. He went back to the mines, but his luck had gone, and his wife--she
had followed him out here--persuaded him to go back home and live in the
old house, on a little income she had; and he bored all the neighbors to
death for a few years about 'early days in California' until he dropped
off. Her name was Mary Garnett.

"That's what put me on--the G. in the middle of the name of the man
Madame Delano married. I telegraphed to Holbrook Centre to find out what
his middle name was, and after that it was easy. I also found out that he
was born in California, and I guess that old wild life was in his blood.
He stood Holbrook Centre until he was sixteen, and then homed back and
took up the trade he just naturally had inherited.

"I figger out that he didn't tell his wife the truth when he married her
back there, not until he was on the train pretty close to S.F., and then
he told her because he couldn't help himself. She couldn't help herself,
either, and besides she was in love with him. He was a handsome,
distinguished lookin' chap, and he kept right on bein' a fascinator as
long as he lived.

"I guess that's the reason she left him in the end. She stood for the
gambling joint, and, although she had a cool sarcastic way with her that
kept the men who fell for her at a distance, she was a good decoy, and
she looked a regular queen at the head of the green table. She was chummy
with Jim's intimates, two of whom were D.V. Bimmer and 'Gene Bisbee, but
even 'Gene didn't dare take any liberties with her.

"It was natural that a woman brought up as she had been should have kept
her child out of it, and I figger that she got disgusted with Jim and
came to the full sense of her duty to the poor kid about the same time.
But she didn't go until Jim settled so much a month on her through old
Lawton--who used to amuse himself at Garnett's a good deal in those days,
and who was one of her best friends.

"Well, she also got Garnett to make a curious sort of a will, leaving his
money to James Lawton, to 'dispose of as agreed upon.' She had a thrifty
business head, had that French dame, and she had made him buy property
when he was flush, and put it in her name, although she gave a written
agreement never to sell out as long as he lived.

"He agreed to let her go because he was dippy about another skirt at the
time, and, besides, she played on his family pride--lineal descendant of
the Delanos, Garnetts, and so forth. He'd never seen the kid after it was
taken to the convent, but I guess he liked the idea, all right, of its
being brought up wearing the old name, and gettin' rid of Marie at the
same time.

"She was too canny to leave him a loophole for divorce, even in
California; but I guess that didn't worry him much.

"If the earthquake and fire hadn't come so soon after the will was
probated there might have been a lot of speculation about it, among men,
at least. Those old gossips in the Club windows would soon have been
putting two and two together; but the calamity that burnt up all the Club
windows, just swept it clean out of their heads.

"I figger out that old Lawton continued to pay Madame Delano the income
she'd been havin' both from Jim and her properties, out of his own
pocket, until the city was rebuilt and he could settle the estate. He had
to borrow the money to rebuild the houses Jim had put up on his wife's
property, and when things got to a certain pass he wrote Madame D. to
come along and take over her property. She'll be good and rich one of
these days, when all the mortgages are paid off and Lawton paid back, but
it was wise for her to stay on the job. Lawton is dead straight, but his
partner is sowing wild oats in his old age--good old S.F. style, and I
guess it ain't wise to tempt him too far. Get me?"

"It's atrocious!"

"Oh, not nearly so bad as it might be. Just think, if it had been
Gabrielle, or Pauline-Marie, or even Mrs. Lawton. That's the worst kind
of bad blood for a woman to inherit. Marie Garnett hung on like grim
death to what the grand society you move in pretends to value most, and
the Lord knows she'll never lose it now.

"Nor need there be any scandal to drive your family to suicide. The thing
to do is to hustle Madame Delano out of San Francisco. She'll go, all
right, with you to look after her interests. She don't fancy being
recognized and blackmailed, or I miss my guess. You may have to pay
Bisbee something, but D. V.'s not that sort, and I don't think anybody
else is on. If they've suspected they'll soon forget it when the old lady
disappears from the Palace Hotel. Gee, but she has a nerve."

"She is an old cynic. If she had any snobbery in her she'd be here
to-night, rubbing elbows with the women who never knew of her existence
twenty years ago, although their husbands did. It has satisfied her
ironic French soul to sit in the court of the Palace Hotel day after day
and defy San Francisco to recognize Marie Garnett in the obese Madame
Delano, whose daughter is one of the great ladies of the city to whose
underworld she once belonged, and from whose filthy profits she derives
her income. Good God!"

He sat forward and clutched his head, but Spaulding, who had drawn out
his watch, tapped him on the shoulder.

"Come on," he said. "Time's gettin' short. The stunt is to be pulled off
just before supper."




CHAPTER XII


I

They walked rapidly up the close avenue--planted far back in the Fifties
by Ford Thornton's grandfather--the blaze of light at the end of the long
perspective growing wider and wider. As they emerged they paused for a
moment, dazzled by the scene.

The original home of the Thorntons had been of ordinary American
architecture and covered with ivy; it might have been transplanted from
some old aristocratic village in the East. Flora Thornton had maintained
that only one style of architecture was appropriate in a state settled by
the Spaniards, and famous for its missions of Moorish architecture. Fordy
loved the old house, but as he denied his wife nothing he had given her a
million, three years before the fire which so sadly diminished fortunes,
and told her to build any sort of house she pleased; if she would only
promise to live in it and not desert him twice a year for Europe.

The immense structure, standing on a knoll, bore a certain resemblance to
the Alhambra, with its heavy square towers; its arched gateways leading
into courtyards with fountains or sunken pools, the red brown of the
stucco which looked like stone and was not. To-night it was blazing with
lights of every color.

So were the ancient oaks, which were old when the Alhambra was built,
the shrubberies, the vast rose garden. The surface of the pool in the
sunken garden reflected the green or red masses of light that shot up
every few moments from the four corners of the terrace surrounding it.
On the lawn just above and to the right of the house, a platform had
been built for dancing; it was enclosed on three sides with an arbor of
many alcoves, lined with flowers, soft lights concealed in depending
clusters of oranges.

And everywhere there were people dressed in costumes, gorgeous,
picturesque, impressive, historic, or recklessly invented, but suggesting
every era when dress counted at all. They danced on the great platform to
the strains of the invisible band, strolled along the terraces above the
sunken garden, wandered through the groves and "grounds," or sat in the
windows of the great house or in its courts. All wore the little black
satin mask prescribed by Mrs. Thornton, and created an illusion that
transported the imagination far from California. Ruyler had a whimsical
sense of being on another star where the favored of the different periods
of Earth had foregathered for the night.

But there was nothing ghostly in the shrill chatter as incessant as the
twitter of the agitated birds, who found their night snatched from them
and hardly knew whether to scold or join in the chorus.

Ruyler had always protested against the high-pitched din made by even six
American women when gathered together, and to the infernal racket at any
large entertainment; but to-night he sighed, forgetting his apprehensions
for the moment.

He had exquisite memories of these lovely grounds; he and Hélène had
spent several days with Mrs. Thornton during their engagement, and she
had lent them the house for their honeymoon; he would have liked to
wander through the pleasant spaces with his wife to-night and make love
to her, instead of spying on her in the company of a detective.

For that, he was forced to conclude, was what he had been brought for.
Spaulding had mentioned her name casually, when telling him that he must
be on hand to nab the "party" who was at the bottom of the whole trouble;
but Spaulding hardly could have watched the person who was blackmailing
without including her in his surveillance. He wished now that he had left
that part of the mystery to take care of itself, trusting to his
mother-in-law's departure to relieve the situation. No doubt she would
have told him the truth herself rather than leave her daughter to the
mercy of the men who knew her secret.

But he was still far from suspecting the worst of the truth.

There were a number of men in fancy dominoes; he and Spaulding crossed
the lawn in front of the house unchallenged and, passing under the
frowning archway, entered the first of the courts.

The oblong sunken pool was banked with myrtle, and above, as well as in
the great inner court with the fountain, there were narrow arcaded
windows with fluttering silken curtains. Mrs. Thornton had too satiric a
sense of humor to have had the famous arabesques of the Alhambra
reproduced any more than the massive coats-of-arms above the arches, but
the walls were delicately colored, the delicate columns looked like old
ivory, and the greatest of the local architects had been entirely
successful in combining the massiveness of the warrior stronghold with
the airy lightness and spaciousness of the pleasure house.

The bedrooms, Ruyler told Spaulding, were all as modern as they were
luxurious, and the library, living-rooms, and dining-room, were in the
best American style. Fordy had rebelled at too much "Spanish atmosphere,"
his blood being straight Anglo-Saxon, and Mrs. Thornton always knew when
to yield. Nevertheless, Flora Thornton had built the proper setting for
her barbaric beauty, and, possibly, spirit.

People were sitting about the courts on piles of colored silken cushions,
those that had got themselves up in Eastern costumes having drifted
naturally to the suitable surroundings; for, after all, the Moors had
been Mohammedans.

"Don't let's hang round here," said the detective, "and don't stand
holding yourself like a ramrod--like that gent out there with the ruff
that must be taking the skin off his chin. I kinder thought I'd like to
see the whole show, but we'd best go now and wait for our little turn."

He led the way round the building to the rear of the southwest tower.
There was a little grove of jasmine trees just beneath it, that made the
air overpoweringly sweet, but there were no lights on this side, as the
garages, stables, vegetable gardens, and servants' quarters would have
destroyed the picture.

Spaulding glanced about sharply, but there was not even a strolling
couple, and even the moon was shining on the other side of the heavy mass
of buildings.

"Now, listen," he said. "You see this window?"--he indicated one directly
over their heads. "At exactly one o'clock, when everybody is flocking to
the supper tables on the terraces, I expect some one to lean out of that
window and talk to some one who will be waiting just below. There may be
no talk, but I think there will be, and I want you to listen to every
word of it without so much as drawing a long breath, no matter what is
said, until I grab your elbow--like this--then I want you to put up your
hand in a hurry while I'm also attendin' to business.

"That's all I'll say now. But by the time a few words have been said,
later, I guess you'll be on.

"Now, we must resign ourselves to a long wait without a smoke and to
keeping perfectly still. I dared not risk comin' any later for fear the
others might be beforehand, too."

Ruyler ground his teeth. He felt ridiculous and humiliated. It was no
compensation that he was holding up the wall of a stucco Moorish palace
and that some three hundred masked people in fancy dress were within
earshot... or did the way he was togged out make him feel all the more
absurd? The whole thing was beastly un-American....

But, was it, after all? If he and Hélène had been here together to-night,
not married and harrowed, but engaged and quick with romance, would he
have thought it absurd to conspire and maneuver to separate her from the
crowd and snatch a few moments of heavenly solitude? Would he have
despised himself for suffering torments if she flouted him or for wanting
to murder any man who balked him?

Love, and all the passions, creative and destructive, it engendered, all
the sentiments and follies and crimes, to say nothing of ambition and
greed and the lust to kill in war--these were instincts and traits that
appeared in mankind generation after generation, in every corner
civilized and savage of the globe. The world changed somewhat in form
during its progress, but never in substance.

And mystery and intrigue were equally a part of life, as indigenous to
the Twentieth Century as to those days long entombed in history when the
troops of Ferdinand and Isabella sat down on the plain before Grenada.

Plot and melodrama were in every life; in some so briefly as hardly to be
recognized, in others--in that of certain men and women in the public
eye, for instance--they were almost in the nature of a continuous
performance.

In these days men took a bath morning and evening, ate daintily, had a
refined vocabulary to use on demand, dressed in tweeds instead of velvet.
There were longer intervals between the old style of warfare when men
were always plugging one another full of holes in the name of religion or
disputed territory, merely to amuse themselves with a tryout of Right
against Might, or to gratify the insane ambition of some upstart like
Napoleon. To-day the business world was the battlefield, and it was his
capital a man was always healing, his poor brain that collapsed nightly
after the strain and nervous worry of the day.

It suddenly felt quite normal to be here flattened against a wall waiting
for some impossible dénouement.

Nevertheless, he was sick with apprehension.

Would it merely be the prelude to another drama? Was his life to be a
series of unwritten plays, of which he was both the hero and the
bewildered spectator? Or would it bring him calm, the terrible calm of
stagnation, of an inner life finished, sealed, buried?

It was inevitable in these romantic surroundings and conditions that he
should revert to his almost forgotten jealousy. Suppose Spaulding had
stumbled upon something.... But he had been asked for no such
evidence.... It would be a damnable liberty.... It might be inextricably
woven with the business in hand.... There were other men besides Doremus
whom Hélène saw constantly.... Spaulding may have seen his chance to nip
the thing in the bud, and had taken the risk....

He felt the detective's lips at his ear: "Hear anything? Move a little
so's you can look up."

Ruyler heard his wife's voice above him, then Aileen Lawton's. He parted
the branches and saw the two girls lean over the low sill of the
casement. Both had removed their masks, but their faces were only dimly
revealed. Their voices, however, were distinct enough, and his wife's was
dull and flat.

"Oh, I can't," she said. "I can't."

"Well, you'll just jolly well have to. You've got it, haven't you?"

"Oh, yes, I've got it!"

"Well, he'll never suspect you."

"I shall tell him."

"Tell him? You little fool. And give us all away?"

"I'd mention no other names."

"As if he wouldn't probe until he found out. Don't you know Price Ruyler
yet? My father said once he'd have made a great District Attorney. What's
the use of telling him later, for that matter? Why not now?"

"I haven't the courage yet. I might have one day--at just the right
moment. I never thought I was a coward."

"You're just a kid. That's what's the matter. We ought to have left you
out. I told Polly that--"

"You couldn't! Oh, don't you see you couldn't. That's the terrible part
of it! Left me out? I'd have found my way in."

"I'm not so sure. You were interested in heaps of things, and in love,
and all that--"

"Oh, I'd like to excuse myself by blaming it on being bored, and tired of
trying to amuse myself doing nothing worth while, but it's bad blood,
that's what it is, bad blood, and you know it, if none of the others do."

"Oh, I'm not one of your heredity fiends. When did your mother tell you?"

"Only the other day."

"Well, she ought to have told you long ago. I believe you'd have kept out
if you'd known."

"Wouldn't I? But of course she hated to tell the truth to me--"

"Well, if I'd known that you didn't know I'd have told you, all right. I
wormed it out of Dad soon after you arrived, and at first I thought it
was a good joke on Society, to say nothing of Price Ruyler, with his air
of God having created heaven first, maybe, but New York just after. Then
I got fond of you and I wouldn't have told for the world. But I would
have put you on your guard if I'd known."

"Oh, it doesn't matter. Even if Price doesn't find out about this, if he
learns the other--who my father was, and that awful men have recognized
my mother--I suppose he'll hate me, and in time I'll go back to Rouen--"

"Now, you don't think as ill as that of him, do you? He makes me so mad
sometimes I could spit in his face, but if he's one thing he's true blue.
He's the straight masculine type with a streak of old romance that would
make him love a woman the more, the sorrier he was for her, and the
weaker she was--I mean so long as she was young. After this, just get to
work on your character, kid. When you're thirty maybe he won't feel that
it's his whole duty to protect you. You'll never be hard and seasoned
like me, nor able to take care of yourself. I like danger, and
excitement, and uncertainty, and mystery, and intrigue, and lying, and
wriggling out of tight places. I'd have gone mad in this hole long ago,
if I hadn't, for I don't care for sport. But you were intended to develop
into what is called a 'fine woman,' surrounded by the right sort of man
meanwhile. And Price Ruyler is the right sort. I'll say that much for
him. He'd have driven me to drink, but he's just your sort--"

"And what am I doing? I am the most degraded woman in the world."

"Oh, no, you're not. Not by a long sight. You don't know how much worse
you could be. One woman who is here to-night I saw lying dead drunk in
the road between San Mateo and Burlingame the other day when I was
driving with Alice Thorndyke, and Alice is having her fourth or fifth
lover, I forget which--"

"They are no worse than I."

"Listen. He's coming. Got it ready?"

"I can't."

"You must. He'll hound you in the  Merry Tattler  until the whole town
knows you're a welcher, and not a soul would speak to you. That is the
one unpardonable sin--"

"I wish I'd told Price--"

"Oh, no, you don't. This is just a lovely way out. Glad he had the
inspiration. Hello, Nick."

A man had groped his way between the trees and stood just under
the window.

"What are you doing here?" asked Doremus sourly.

"Witness, witness, my dear Nick. Besides, poor Hélène never would have
come alone, so there you are."

"To hell with all this melodramatic business. It could have been done
anywhere--"

"Not much. Dark corners for dark doings."

"Well, hand it over."

Ruyler had given his brain an icy shower bath as soon as he heard his
wife's voice, and was now as cool and alert as even the detective could
have wished. He did not wait for the promised impulse to his elbow; his
hand shot up just ahead of Doremus's and closed over his wife's hand,
which, he felt at once, held the ruby. At the same moment Spaulding
caught Doremus by his medieval collar and shook him until the man's teeth
chattered, then he slapped his face and kicked him.

"Now, you," he said standing over the panting man, who was mopping his
bleeding nose, and holding the electric torch so that it would shine on
his own face. "You get out of California, d'you hear? You're a gambler
and a blackmailer and a panderer to old women, and I've got some
evidence that would drag you into court however it turned out, so's
you'd find this town a live gridiron. So, git, while you can. Go while
the going's good."

Doremus, too shaken to reply, slunk off, and Spaulding after a glance
upward, left as silently.




CHAPTER XIII


I

Aileen had shrieked and fled. Ruyler stood in the room with the ruby in
his open hand. He saw that Hélène was standing quite erect before him.
She had made no attempt to leave the room, nor did she appear to be
threatened with hysterics.

He groped until he found the electric button. The room, as Ruyler had
inferred, was Mrs. Thornton's winter boudoir, a gorgeous room of yellow
brocade and oriental stuffs.

"Will you sit down?" he asked.

Hélène shook her head. She was very white and she looked as old as a
young actress who has been doing one night stands for three months.
Behind the drawn mask of her face there was her indestructible youth, but
so faint that it thought itself dead.

She looked at her hands, which she twisted together as if they were cold.

"Will you tell me the truth now?" asked Price.

"Don't you guess it?"

"When I came here to-night I believed that you were the victim of
blackmail. I was not watching you--I hope you will take my word for that.
We--I had a detective on the case--Spaulding merely wanted to nab the man
who was blackmailing you--"

"Do you still believe that?"

"I overheard your conversation with Aileen Lawton. I don't know what
to believe."

"I am a gambler. My father was a gambler. He kept a notorious place in
San Francisco. His name out here was James Garnett. My grandfather was a
gambler. He was even more spectacular--"

"I know all that. Don't mind."

"You knew it?" For the first time she looked at him, but she turned her
eyes away at once and stared at the oblong of dark framed by the
window. "Why--"

"Spaulding told me to-night only."

"Mother told me a week or so ago. She'd been recognized. Shortly after I
married, when she found out how the women played bridge and poker here,
she made me promise I'd never touch a card, never play any sort of
gambling game. I promised readily enough, and I thought nothing of her
insistence. Maman was old-fashioned in many ways--I mean the life we
lived in. Rouen was so different from this that I could understand how
many things would shock her. I never thought about it--but--it was about
six months ago--you were away for a week and I stayed with Polly Roberts
at the Fairmont. I knew of course that she played and that Aileen and a
lot of the others did, but I hadn't given the matter a thought. One heard
nothing but bridge, bridge, bridge. I was sick of the word.

"But I found they played poker. Polly and Aileen, Alice Thorndyke, Janet
Maynard, Mary Kimball, Nick Doremus, Rex and one or two other men who
could get off in the afternoons.

"I never had dreamed any one in society played for such high stakes.
Janet Maynard and Mary Kimball could afford it, but Polly and Alice and
Aileen couldn't. Still they often won--enough, anyhow, to clean up and go
on. Doremus is a wonderful player. That is how I got interested, watching
him after he had explained the game to me.

"It was a long time before I was persuaded to take a hand. It was so
interesting just to watch. And not only the game, but their faces. Some
would have a regular 'poker face,' others would give themselves away.
Once Aileen had the most awful hysterics. We were afraid some one outside
would hear her; the deadening was burnt out of the walls of the Fairmont
at the time of the fire. But we were in the middle room of the suite.

"Nick told her in his dreadful cold expressionless voice that if she ever
did that again he'd never play another game with her. That meant that
they'd all drop her, and she came to and promised, and she kept her word.
Poker is the breath of life to her. I think she'd become a drug fiend if
she couldn't have it.

"At last they persuaded me to play. We were playing at Nick's, and after
a light dinner served by his Jap, we went right on playing until
midnight. I never thought of you or anything. I seemed to respond with
every nerve in my body and brain. I won and won and won, and even when I
lost I didn't mind. The sensation, the tearing excitement just under a
perfectly cool brain was wonderful.

"I only ceased to enjoy it when I realized what it meant. When I couldn't
keep away from it. When I lived for the hour when we would meet,--at
Polly's, or at Nick's or at Aileen's--any of the places where we were
supposed to be dancing, but where there was no danger of being found out.
Of course I dared not have them at home, and the others lived with their
families, or had too many servants....

"I came fully to my senses one day when Nick told me I was a born
gambler if ever there was one. Then, when I realized, I became
desperately unhappy.

"I was the slave of a thing. I was deceiving you. When I was at the table
I loved poker better than you, better than anything on earth. When I was
alone I hated it. But I couldn't break away. Besides, I didn't always
win. I had to play in the hope of winning back. Or if I won a lot it was
a point of honor to go on and play again, and give them their chance.

"Mrs. Thornton found out. She gave me a terrible talking to. I am afraid
I was very insolent.

"But she came up that night of the Assembly and warned me that you were
down stairs. I was playing in Polly's room. We had all danced two or
three times and then slipped up to the next floor by different stairs and
lifts. I liked her better then. Of course she did it for your sake, not
mine. But she's a good sort, not a cat.

"You have not noticed, but I have not bought a new gown this season
except that little gray one and this--which was made in the house. I
dared not pawn my jewels, for fear you would miss them.

"I have been in hell.

"Then--it was that evening you heard maman reproach me for breaking my
promise--I had lost a dreadful lot of money and Nick had scurried round
and borrowed it for me. I didn't know then that he meant all the time to
get hold of the ruby--I am sure now that he cheated and made me lose.

"Well, I sent the maid away that night and told maman. She was nearly off
her head. I never saw her excited before. Then she told me the truth. I
felt as if I had been turned to stone. But I felt suddenly cool and wary.
I knew I must keep my head. It was as if my father had suddenly come
alive in my brain. I had never lied to you before, merely put you off.
But how I lied that night! I felt possessed. But I knew I must not be
found out, and I made up my mind to stop playing as soon as I came out
even. If I had known that my father and my grandfather had been gamblers
I never should have touched a card. I'd far rather have drunk poison.

"I made up my mind then, and there to stop and I felt quite capable of
it. But I had to go on and square myself, for I owed that money to Nick.
But when I played it was with my head only. All the fever had gone out of
my veins. I loathed it. I loathed still more deceiving you.

"I won and won and won. I thought I was delivered. I was almost happy
again. Some day I meant to tell you--when it was all over.

"Then I began to lose horribly. Thousands. It ran up to twenty thousand.
I did not betray myself, and the girls thought I had money of my own and
could pay my losses quite easily. They didn't know that Nick always
helped me out. He was never the least bit in love with me--he couldn't
love any woman--but he said I played such a wonderful game and was such a
sport, never lost my head, that he wouldn't lose me for the world--when I
threatened to stop and never play again.

"But all the time he wanted the ruby. I found that out when he told me he
must have the money inside of a week; he'd taken it out of his business,
and it really belonged to his partners, and they'd find him out and send
him to prison--

"I offered him my jewels. They would have brought half their value at
least. I could have told you they were stolen--only one more lie. It was
then he said he must have the ruby. He had known about it ever since you
came out here, but after he saw it on me that night at the Gwynnes' he
was more than ever determined to have it.

"I laughed at him at first. It seemed preposterous that he could demand a
ruby worth two or three hundred thousand dollars in payment for a debt of
twenty thousand. I thought of selling my jewels and furs and laces, or
pawning them and raising the amount--he only had my I.O.U. for that sum.
But I didn't know where to go. So I told Aileen. She wouldn't hear of my
disposing of my things, said it would, be all over town in twenty-four
hours. She advised me to get the twenty thousand out of you on one
pretext or another.

"I tried. You will remember. Then Nick began to haunt me. He whispered in
my ear wherever we met. I was nearly frantic. He said he could hold me up
to shame without compromising himself. I had written him some frantic
letters, and he said they read just like--like--the other thing.

"I felt perfectly helpless. I knew that even if I did manage to pawn the
jewels, you would miss them from the safe and trace them. I ceased to
feel cool. I nearly went off my head. But I stopped gambling. I felt sure
by this time that he could make me lose, but I couldn't prove it. Aileen
told me I must give him the ruby. He promised me before Aileen that he
would give me back my I.O.U.'s as well as my notes if I would hand over
the ruby. He knew I was to wear it to-night.

"Finally I gave in. Yesterday Nick called me up on the telephone and told
me to come down to the California Market to lunch, and to bring Aileen.
He told me there that unless I promised to give him the ruby to-night,
and kept my word, he'd either give my I.O.U.'s and my notes to you or to
the  Merry Tattler . He didn't care which. I could have my choice.

"I said I would do it. But it was terribly conspicuous. Everybody would
notice when it was gone. He said I must conceal it anyhow until we
unmasked after supper, and then I could pretend I had lost it. He
discussed several plans for having me slip it to him, but it was Aileen
who insisted we should come here. Mrs. Thornton never opens her boudoir
at a party. Everywhere else would be a blaze of light. In this dark
corner we should be safe, especially if he came from the outside and I
from inside. How did your detective find out?"

"I think Aileen did a decent thing for once in her life."

She went on in her monotonous voice. "I felt reckless after that and I
really was gay and almost happy at dinner last night. The die was cast. I
didn't much care for anything. I thought perhaps it was my last night
with you--that when I told you I had lost the ruby you would suspect and
turn me out of your house, tell maman to take me back to Rouen.

"Then came that awful moment when you said you had to go away and I could
not wear it. For a few moments I thought I should scream and tell you
everything. But I was both too proud and too much of a coward. Then I
knew I should have to rob the safe, and somehow I hated that part more
than anything else. I did it just ten minutes before Rex and Polly called
for me to motor down here. It had seemed the most horrible thing in the
world to be a gambler, but it was worse to be a thief.

"I remembered the combination perfectly. I have that sort of memory: it
registers photographically. I had seen you move the combination several
times. Perhaps I deliberately registered it. I can't say. I have lived in
such a maze of intrigue lately. I can't say. That is all--except that I
didn't get the letters and the other things."

"He had an envelope in one hand. Spaulding has it beyond a doubt."




CHAPTER XIV


There was silence for a moment and then Price said awkwardly: "It is a
pity you haven't the chain or you could wear the ruby for the rest of
the evening."

She turned her eyes from the window and stared at him. "I have the
chain--" She raised her hand to the tip of her bodice--"but--but--you
can't mean--it isn't possible that you can forgive me."

"I think I have taken very bad care of you. What are you, after all, but
a brilliant child? I am thirty-three--"

He suddenly tore off his domino with, a feeling of rage, and thrust his
hands into his friendly pockets. He had never made many verbal
protestations to her, although the most exacting wife could have found no
fault with his love-making. But to-night he felt dumb; he was mortally
afraid of appearing high and noble and magnanimous.

"You see, things always happen during the first years of married life.
Perhaps more happens--I mean in a pettier way--when the man has leisure
and can see too much of his wife. In my case--our case--it was the other
way--and something almost tragic happened. So I vote we treat it
casually, as something that must have been expected sooner or later to
disturb our--our--even tenor--and forget it."

"Forget it?"

"Well, yes. I can if you can."

"And can you forget who I am?"

"You are exactly what you were before those scoundrels recognized your
mother, and--and--set me going. Of course I had to find out the truth. I
thought you knew and tried to make you tell me. But you
wouldn't--couldn't--and I had to employ Spaulding."

"Do you mean you would have married me if you had known the truth at
the time?"

"Rather."

"And--but--I told you--I became a regular gambler."

He could not help smiling. "I have no fear of your gambling again. And I
don't fancy you were a bit worse than the others who had no gambling
blood in them--all the world has that. Gambling is about the earliest of
the vices. I--if--you wouldn't mind promising--I know you will keep it."

"Nothing under heaven would induce me to play again. But--but--I opened
your safe like a thief and stole--"

"Oh, not quite. After all it was yours as much as mine. If I had died
without a will you would have got it.

"Of course--I know what you mean--but men have always driven women into a
corner, and they have had to get out by methods of their own. I wish now
I had given you the twenty thousand. I prefer you should accept my
decision that it was all my fault. Give me the chain."

She drew it from her bosom and handed it to him. He fastened the ruby in
its place and threw the chain over her neck. The great jewel lit up the
front of her somber gown like a sudden torch in a cavern.

The stern despair of Hélène's tragic mask relaxed. She dropped her face
into her hands and began to sob. Then Ruyler was himself again. He
picked her up in his arms and settled comfortably into the deepest of
the chairs.

THE END

what's up dadyo when did you get back on twitter? haha
like 2 weeks ago and it's going as terribly as i remember, but deg is still hilarious so it's ok
literally never about that account, love it.



answer me this fellow apple peoples: how many times in the past year have you used the escape key?
about 50 times today. terminal vim user.
seems the major complaints so far are from vim users like yourself. im wondering how force quit is gonna work.
cmd+opt+esc is good but still available via menubar



there was a greasy kid at highline who was basically miles dipped in a bucket of ranch
i'm disgusted
he flashed us then we scored so he sadly put his shirt back on # screwhighline
what a piece of crap



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
and then that mouse had the nerve to try to eat our kibble!  let this be a lesson fur all the other mousies!  



what day are you coming to effie??
tomorrow
im leaving today once i get off work
make sure i have a bed and seat saved next to you!



avi  hey boo
wbuttup shorty. 
you're beautiful ma !
appreciate that shorty, you too. 



does anyone have white spandex
yea
bet lemme borrow them
gotchu



what's going on fooly how u been doing
good  wby
working other than that living life you kno how that goes 
that's wbuttup 



my take on new rule - doesn't go far enough. cup drivers will still dominate nxs. but happy they are out for chase races #smallvictories
and the dash for cash races too
yes - although most (or some) of those are stand-alones anyway
do you think this wouldve happened anyway if it was another driver stinkin it up like kyle has recently?



ernie lost a bit of my respect too, just when you think hey this white guy gets it.... nope
what did these niggas say
kennys black, not for him. then ernie joins in "i'd never, it's time to stand together we'll never be perfect so don't kneel"
kenny's wife is white on top of that. u not gonna tell me u put a flag over the color of your skin.



i'll be back cute in 2 weeks
u cute now

 on the with irs



any hot chicks wanna let me touch their but today?
i got u
i havent groped that butt in a while i need dat
lmfao



so much to do before leaving for d.c. ahhh
i have stuff here
???
like if you forget to pack something



white girls singing about "niggers" stealing shouldn't have had to face any repercussions? .....
nope bc evidently it was 1) a famous vine they repeated 2) there was no malicious intent 3) it was all freaking jokes
they're not 5 year olds. them repeating what they heard isn't an excuse. it does not matter if there was malicious intent.
of every race say that word all the time to their friends. there should've been no repercussions, if there had to be then



okay so i know we've had our differences on pineapples on pizza in the past but there's something else that needs attention... eggnog
i  screws with coquito thoughhh. which is prob the same thing but who cares it sounds better lmao
what in the tits is a coquito
puerto rican eggnog crap is f i r e



just riding these ol dirt roads.
idiot.
k babe.
where you at



hate how y'all try to call me "fake gay" no.. trust &amp; believe vagina is wonderful to me, but so is your father. *hint hint* idiots

 yeah but some people don't like when you like dessert... they just want you to like the dinner
but just plain dinner is lame.. i like to have something sweet sometimes to. they get to eat what they want, why i can't?



whatever, i'm gonna uncork this bottle and have me a glbutt of wine.. 
just one?
naw...already on my 2nd glbutt lol
yeah!  that sounds like the tracy in my timeline. 



you are a crazy man trump, you speak without thinking what you are going to say. and your supporters are very racist.
dont you all het tired calling half of the country racist?
are you finish for the night?
yes. good night.



bad lighting fit selfies &gt;
my selfies got bad lighting? lol
nah my lighting on my phone was all the way down lmao
rightttttt lmfao



you work thursday ?
yeah i do
awesome! i was thinking about spending some time there to work on my schedule. think there would be room for me?
yeah there should be room. usually the desks behind where i sit.



jordan's  screwing retarded
i'll beat your butt 
i'm waiting
i'm near the gym fight me pussy



happy birthday kid. read this in 8 hours
alright kiddo. 8 hours.
okay great. now you can scream all the thank you you want. wait there's no cake... keep it. give me my happy birthday back 
i bought you a fudge brownie. it counts as cake.



i had the filthiest dream about one of my followers. filthy. like, i need to delete my account kind of filthy. it was that disgusting. smfh
i see

i think you are the bee's knees, but no. i can't even go along with this.



sooo.... did everyone on uapb campus tv's loose signal?
girl yeah.
well idk but mine did
my ls at the jbj said she did too



will you be at the phi delts friday???
is that their halloween party?  if you go i could maybe make an appearance . i miss you!
yes it is and yes i am! 
i coach till 9:30 but i could drive up!



today my professor said that painting comes too easy to me i'm like .... john... jonathan.... i've been working my butt off
what kind of..... what
honestly idk i mean i guess i get what he means like i procrastinate a lot n i should stop it was a roundabout way of saying it
ahh i got u



i want a pair of human race sneakers where can i find them
you bout to pay a arm for them craps
same price as a pair of yeezy?
if you lucky



what's the most futuristic toilet?
a sentient urinal that gives idle chit chat in a german accent while you pee. just spit balling here
where is the speaker?
within the cistern for authentic gargling voice fx. it always thanks you when ur done. eventually it becomes ur only friend.



lol my best friend at the time got cheated on, we wrote on the guys truck..he started chasing us, i tripped and broke my ankle #justmyluck
wtf
it was ridiculous  and i drove with my foot hanging out the window all  screwed up
when was this i'm so confused 



.
i was thinking about that today and i got so sad
uh oh guess you have to come see snl again this season !!!
i'm coming back in january! 



anybody wanna borrow a 20 month baby girl old for the day? bc i'm not dealing w her. 
dito don't do her like that 
i been ready to fight her since 5am she wouldn't go back to sleep but she sleep now so i'll keep her 
dito that how i be with sofi when she gets up in the middle of the night and won't go back to sleep



i don't always drink on tuesday nights/wednesday mornings, but when i do... it's when i just worked from 8am to 2am.
work in the nightlife, there's no restrictions lol
we usually work 8am-5pm. we just stayed an extra 9 hours tonight 
that sounds  screwing terrible lol



i heard that snippet 
unimpressed, huh? 
to say the least 
ya girl just ain't got the juice, no more.



ready to get in the deer stand already!
im going sunday just to see if anything comes out and to blast the hogs that have been on my crap
where's that lease at?
livingston



stormzy is the realest
what you know about stormzy? lol
ik hes the realest uk rapper
?



if somebody wants to play some of those ios 10 game things hmu
the what?
idk what they're called i just got ios 10 on my old phone and it's merely for whatever people have been playing?
ios 10 has been confusing af i still don't understand it all



on medium.
hope it's not a buncha articles on "boosting creativity" and why taking cold showers is great
it's (so far) a lot of stuff about bank culture, which is actually kind of interesting where my job is concerned.
only a hop skip &amp; a jump from "why i quit my job at the fed to travel the world, and why you should too  before it's too late"



someone stop me from biting my  screwing nails dude ughhhhh
i bit my nails for 14 years straight and there's honestly no way to stop it. especially it it's a nervous habit which mine was
and i still pick and them and it takes every inch of my body to stop myself to this day but it's been a year and i'm so happy
it's definitely a nervous habit i've had since forever and i just can't ever stop myself like the minute i see them



wait, what, rko to kane?!?! #sdlive
kane has been very naughty as of late. he's holding randy back. thus, an rko was a suitable alternative.
"getting sick of your crap, kane" *rko outta nowhere*. sounds like something randy would do.
.



when i get my period anything makes me cry, crap mad annoying
lool i hate that. like you know you're not soft and it's making you seem like that. that happens to me every several cycles
that happens to me everytime like its too early 
facts. ugh that's annoying af. i'm sorry 



are you home
si
let's go to woodbridge
have clbutt 



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition



i'm up at 3am practicing my costume makeup.  wide awake and crap
and never texted me and crap
dammit jordyn you didn't respond so i totally forgot #yourfault
don't yell



i miss my other half. 
miss you too

stop being like this



2016 conversations: "what do you do besides uber?" "i'm a picker at amazon." "a what?" "i pick products at amazon. there are weird ones."
had to google that one. interesting bloomberg interview on being an amazon picker
thanks. will check it out.
not as interesting as picking sex toys, but interesting in how quickly they onboard 1k emp &amp; no structure to their warehouses



singles is actually the best on gow4, reminds me so much of gow2. couple of wack maps for it but overall &gt;
really? i may have to start grinding those
yeah its a clear 1v1 for flame nades, dropshot usually. maps like lift are very interesting as well :)
honestly going to grind as many gbs as possible once the org is sorted. singles seem great if you can't get ft gb's



exactly i just got off at 12 wtf have i been doing since then
girl that's what i be thinking lol.
i'm not even sleepy lol usually when i get off work i be tired
like really, i'll take a nap or something but today i'm just up like its normal.



i need lady friends around here that'll do lame movie and wine nights.

yes please!!!!
in on this



if you like mayo, please unfollow and then block me, you nasty idiot.
but you don't like tomatoes....that's worse.....
tomatoes on sandwiches are crapty. tomatoes on/in other stuff is fine.
that's the worst argument i've ever heard.



a1 since day 1.
when y'all having bp?y'all need to stop acting jewish and hit me up.
 screw i haven't ran it with juan in a min  i'll hit you up when we do
he was suppose to have that bp tournament, i'm about to die when he finally gets it together



i want to go to a game in edmonton more than anything.
i will 1000% join you
i would sell my soul to the devil to go ... i would walk there shshsh
when do nyr play there



is sword art online 2 worth watching
meh. sao 1 was better. it's a lot more real world than virtual for kirito. not a huge fan.
lame. i'm more into the virtual world part of sao.
it's decent. but imo, sao 1 was better.



do folk even know nor care jane?
i think young people have been raised to feel guilty about their middle-clbutt life instead of being raised to try to achieve more
it's a cop out jane. back in our day we would get the crap kicked out of us. now, parents pacify children.
switch or hand jane....choose!!!!



lol guys i just did a race in olympus where the first olympic games were wbu?
did you lose?
lol i came third still got a medal
bronze is in this season



great day to compete... stop protecting your youth from the harsh truth in the world. protect them from the comfortable lies.. #staypositive
perfect!  "comfortable lies" it takes a dad to do that, moms hide children from harshness more often. "protection mode always on
takes people searching the truth in everything. history, the goshs you follow, holidays you celebrate, and perception vs reality
the gosh i follow is a big g not a little g the little g i followed (money, power, selfishness etc..) before the big jesus came.



bought an 8 packs of full sized doughnuts and a half gallon of milk for dinner at 10:52 at night cause yanno college
freshhhhmaaaannnn
plz get out of my mentions
srry i'll go this way 



this week is going to be real tough for dak prescott and zeke. this phi dl is legit and division rivals just make it tough for you
heard bennie logan is still out. that's big
thatd be a big deal
yea.  i believe it's either his back or leg.



emma's sim just died rip
wtf you had it for like 8 hours
i know and i was asleep for 6 of them! she electrocuted herself trying to fix a tv b/c she couldn't afford a repairman
oh man that sounds like me as hell



if the indians win, i may actually have to do a pub crawl in cleveland!
i hope the #indians win today in #standingrock #nodapl :)
naturally, i should like chicago. however, i just can't stand the despicable cubs owners.
well, i'm not talking baseball. i'm talking real indians in north dakota.people as mascots = bad



kanye is gonna be so  screwing lit i swear to gawd!!!
yaaaas
so you are going tomorrow?!
not tomorrow, november 23rd 



oh i just got hooked up with some dulce tamales and some chicken ones this is gonna be a good night
lemme get some
nah son only till u can ollie off my front stairs
i'll pull up tomorrow n even heel flip that dude



oh ffs... self-service pbuttword reset... using security questions 1: favourite childhood toy2: your favourite meal
you can use the veggie that is green and looks like a flower ? toys well you are on your own for that 
problem with security questions is people putting in real things like brocolli and lego and then talk about those things 1/2
meaning, they may as well not have a pbuttword in the first place, oh and this isn't for some little website... but for 



i feel the sudden need to watch all 3 high school musicals
you are so gay
whatever you say prince alex
you are an italian that's never been to italy.



it was so hard getting out of bed this morning 
just wanted to stop through and say heyyy
heyy, i hope you have a good day 
you too 



what is it to do on the tuesday
hey my homeboy round you still ?
yea his phone dead
he gone be dead next let em know please thanks



good morning #cowboysnation 

hiiiiii
what up sick



we don't want marriage equality - just decriminalization. u heteros can answer to gosh 4  screwing up marriage with your divorces and crap 
hi hi, can we have a kakao chat or an email chat soon - need your advice and wisdom!  alofa tele atu 
awww miss you papito  sure. email ymania at gmail dot com. we'll hook something up. love you 
yay! i will! talk soon! love you too powerful lady!! 



match anyone ?

wya ?
grambling hall



looking for the dodgers game on my tv guide...
did you dvr it??
must have missed it... they play again soon right?
yeah yeah, they kick the season off in april!



i just learned there are qu'ran reading competitions. im not gonna knock the hustle but how can you be better at reading than someone else?
ain't that what spoken word is tho?
i suppose so, its just an interesting concept, competing at reading a couple thousand year old book.
people will make competition of anything over time, esp. over such a large/diverse area over 1000 years



the longest game of checkers ive ever played.
lit
i aint taking this l 
u got this fam



instead of a song, i have this, from the revengers tragedy, in my head this am--vindice addressing the skull of gloriana:
"advance thee, o thou terror to fat folks, to have their costly three-pil'd flesh worn off as bare as this..."
love this speech, and students' faces as they explore it. a macabre blazon :)
yes!  even in this sentence, the way his disgust with the world hijacks direct address.



does anyone else need the word "hug" typed in between a pair of asterisks? apparently i am giving those out this morning. just let me know.
...maybe
okay i'll meet you halfway on this*ug*
thanks



so twitter wouldn't let me retweet something important so i liked it and it just disappeared from my likes wtf
strange
censorship of conservatives it's all over the place on here and facebook especially if you tell the truth about islam and refugees
yes, i noticed sometimes before i can respond to a tweet it disappears



warriors haters twitter off the chain right now
over one game!? 
yes! it's crazy
haters gone hate.  screw em



mo ran a red light 2 seconds before it turned green trying to act cool and literally .2 seconds later a cop pulled him over
he was so shook that when the cop said where are you coming from and where are you headed he replied "i'm going to vista from vista"
...yellow deli trip i'm guessing?
we were coming from the forum in carlsbad i was like wtf you're about to get a ticket for being dumb



dms opennnnn
keep them closed
why 
you letting out all the cold air



watching a show about space and my mind is blown. there's no freaking way we are the only ones in the universe, we are just a tiny speck
lol the one on netflix ?
yes cosmos? lol
it's crazy how small we are when he starts zooming out 



putting on jeans for the first time in forever and realizing you no longer have jeans that fit 
booty gains be like
lol but really, guess i'll have to go jean shopping
yes lol lush put stop while there too of course



if your goals consist of you leaving guam and never coming back, you're part of the problem.you can't improve something from the outside.
that is the truth, unfortunately
get your master's &amp; phd and come back mister!!
i may just come back. who knows. haha



it feel good to know i can have any nigga i want 
 you tuff as nails ain't you
lol not even close
oh that's what that last tweet said lol



there's a hold on my account so i can't enroll for clbuttes... and i only have 2 days to do it smh
emergency contact?
yes!!! but i'm not the only one.. a few of my other friends from cal poly said they updated a week ago and its still there
no it's like everyone:/



need to get some sleep
same
then get to it  or is it hot asf in your room too 
no not hot i just can't get comfortable 



you never sleep 
 screw it 
 you need to take some sleeping pills
them craps don't work 



do you like podcasts? check out draft kings so you can squarespace your audible dot com and enjoy a blue apron shave, whenever you sleep
how much money did this tweet make you
five million dollars
gosh you sellout



good morning glory.  isn't that bark art work cool?
you ought to see the peeling bark on the northern white birch and silver birch au naturals 
so the question was, how are you today.
good, fine as frogs hair, can't complain...not gonna complain!. and you? how are you?!



cheeszus fall arrived late but quick.  
it sure did, and i love it. it was almost 90 degrees like 4 days ago.
you would  lol enjoy your weather.  i need a flight to a 90 degree island stat! 
you'll be alright, just have a shot of bourbon chased with a pumpkin spiced latte. it will help



i need new music to listen to.. suggestions anyone?
notorious b.i.g.
for some reason i'm scared lol
you'll be on a whole new level of greatness and you'll probably be tied with beer on joes "love scales" if you like biggie



perfectly lonely
need some company ?
lil john mayer for the morning
does the soul good



i'm barely making it to clbutt 
at least you're making it 
 yesterday i ain't make it to none . i was stuck .
today is a new day. let's make this one prosperous &amp; productive 



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*



??? #getfamousthursdays
yes!!! also, fyi, i think of you pretty much every thursday.
no but like for realz i do too
same



game 1 tonight! who are you rooting for? #worldseries #baseballisthebest
cubs!
just had a thought earlier, is the start time of 19:08 just sheer coincidence or did they do that on purpose???
oh that's a trip! based on the final score, seems like more of an omen, than a sign at this point eh?



if you think about it, what's absent from the wikileaks emails is at least as intriguing as what's in them.
please go on, ron.
well, there's little or no substantive discussion of her health - neither confirming the spin of her camp or otherwise.
there's also very little about bill clinton, from what i've seen.



#dearcustomer it is not necessary to ask for a discount. you are buying a red plastic bucket that costs 99c. it just makes you sound thick!
but it doesn't come with a lid ya wanker!
*opens lid* you ready to behave now?
yes your majesty



he said "whenever i ask my dogs if they're hungry, i say 'do u want ur deener'" 
bre, let's sit down and talk about the fact that you have a crush on a 30sum married man who is obsessed with his derpy fur babies.
he's like 34.... only like double my age lmao
"only"  why him  why not like braun or someone lmaoooo



been thinking about this a lot, there's one woman who knows me inside and out, up and down, and my new focus is to give her the world
i'm done with the games , being off and on, petty arguments, like i'm done this is it for me lol.
ooooooooooh shut up
make me



can't find anything to wear for this weekend at all n it's stressing me out
go to the mall
already in the mall
hit that h &amp; m or forever 21. you'll find something



the deer are moving and getting dropped! my turn comes wednesday evening, thursday eve through friday night. yippie! will have a guide. yeah
good luck
thanks jake. i need luck on my side. i have the practice and planning. now i just need a deer within range and hope it pays off
it will



coolest foul ball catch run into the of from baez #letsgocubs #cubsvsindians #worldseries
i'm honestly hoping schwarber smashes one out of the park for you tonight!  #worldseries #schwarbersmash #bittersoxfanforlife
thanks peach! he almost hit one out last night!!
i know, too close! i hope the top 3 lineup put up some numbers tonight too! #worldseries #cubsvsindians #bittersoxfanforlife



mornin'
morning
:)
have a great day



im callin in dead for work.
still makes me laugh
this was me today. again. 
lmfao 



show: "the blacklist" this man was on the most wanted list but turns himself in to the fbi, but you'll have to watch to see why. he so smart
movie: "tears of the sun" navy go to save a doctor in africa but she don't want to leave all the ppl behind so they basically go to war.
show: "how to get away with murder," i don't have to even explain this one, you just sleep if you don't watch it but catch up on netflix.
lol i gotchu i'm bout to start watching this



had a distressing nightmare last night in which i had to defend my dissertation again
"we made a mistake and you don't actually have a degree."
wow how awful!!
i'm still traumatized from my qualifying exams. i can't even get to the dissertation in my dreams.



wtf man rip big ken 
big ken from where ??
the only big ken we know  reece
what in the actual  screw



i hate having to beat the  screw out of here thief butt friends we got
 who
wyees
that makes so much sense lmaoooooo



no one can tell a story in a song as well as eminem, don't @ me
savage
my main savage! how you been man?
shooot me i been kickin it yenno school n work



oh. my. gosh.
your snaps tonight! i'm soooooo jealous
i'm so happy rn 
i'm soooo happy for ya kev, you were def in your element



wth am i gonna be for hallosuween 
what's the move friday i'm pulling up lol
i actually don't know lol. my friends here going to ou for nia and them party. i can find out what the party is for you though
oh okay. you going to ou friday ?



starting today, any brock excuses needs to stay off my tl. he needs more time, not big enough sample size or any other bullcrap go elsewhere
he plays, its not for football reasons. play the other guy. find out. stay with brock, lose the team. they know.
i really don't think they know. honestly. i don't think they know.
that locker room knows what brock is. for sure.



it's  screwed up how even after he tried choking her his mom is acting hostile on my friend as if it was her fault.
. ;)
lmfao she is really pretty






just went out to my car to get my charger and the door was left open and it was tore apart from someone going inside it. i'm livid rn
stop leaving your car unlocked!!
cops are here rn. they got my dads, lindsis, the neighbors etc
well you all leave them unlocked tho. but dang. that's still  screwed up



it  screwing hurts to even lay my head down. gosh.
did you try taking some ibuprofen?
away. 
i'm sorry, babe. wish i could do something to help.



if algebra was a person... i would take its mom out to a nice seafood dinner and never call her again.
we have a test today too 
trust me i know...
you can do it babe!



last night was first night back to work since the hurricane.i'm feeling it. #nurselife
did you have a lot of damage?
i did have a significant amount of damage. still out of electricity..i was loaned a generator this past weekend. blessing!
i'm so sorry, but i am glad you have generator now!! we lost a dock and a boat in the hurricane! downed trees, but no damage to hous



cant decide whether i want to go to sleep now and wake up at 4:30 or study till 5 and then go to sleep
i've always went with sleeping early and waking up early to study.
i've never trusted myself to wake up but i'm gonna try it lol 
lol be careful there were a few times i definitely just stayed sleep 



going to see kanye. 
which show!
we are going to sac!!
oh crap sick i'm going to the inglewood one next wednesday



8:38 am over here and it's my day! can i please  get a day tweet? love from belgium 
happy birthday rose hope you have a fun day.
thanks! plan to lunch with best friend and have lots of girly talks 
sounds like fun



can you make hot chocolate in the oven
uh no don't think so
darn it :/
try a microwave



it's so stupid you're "supposed" to drink soda for upset stomachs but coke &amp; sprite have so many mg of sugar so if you're diabetic...
sparkling water does the trick too.
yes! i got her some. my nana was giving her soda 
nana the troll 



portland's system similar to atl's cultivates pbutting. plumlee made insane strides there last yr. afa &amp; harkless threw some beauts tonight
dude... dame is gonna be even more amazing this season? he was putting up a few from curry range last season...
he's really  screwing good, and even better when teams employ drop back schemes on him
what are you expecting for wiggins and lavine this season? we already know towns da gawd



, you have some free time?
and by free, i just mean available. i'll double your fee if you do your worst. and if we can do it by the end of october?
that's a real time crunch, but i can try &amp; put something together for you. what are the specs?
i'll text you around 10:30, looking for a super professional and persuasive set up. almost like a campaign.



we wagering on this game? 
woah, if we did wager something, what would we have done?!
dang! fantastic question. i guess we would have to agree to wait for the next one on 12/24, yeah?
yes, we'll have to figure something out!



you do what you do and you pay for your sins and there's no such thing as what might have been
heard your loud butt going up the interstate earlier 
 which side of the interstate were you on
going toward opelika lol



i remember early in high school i couldn't get a date to save my life.
same but it's k because now i have u :d so i win

ugly duckling syndrome unite



if i gave you a nick name just know that i like you
what's mine
idk yet lol
friendship over smh



i change my mind i'm getting feed in ghana braids 
they going to look good on you 
thank you .
add me on snap so i can see them when you done kfree112



good night karen 
good night terri, sleep well 
still wide awake &amp; got to be up in three hours watching cher on youtube 
i'm wide awake cause i'm at work, keeping the world safe &amp; saving lives, lol 



i got fake people showin fake love to me
stfu
no one asked for your opinion
stfu






rich bring me a davys juicy "burger"
too late fam
story of my life



do you work for cbs news?
i'm retired now.
oh. hope you like that.
thanks connie.



i need a cowboys shirt. somebody hook me up

you offering?  our anniversary coming up 
dallas cowboys?



will be taking bets on the game sunday
eagle vs cowboys?
yessir !
lol i ain't gone do it. that could really go either way. all depends on who defense wants it more



i had lot of respect for your democracy struggle, but asking players to stop #pushups takes away all that! #cantbemoreridiculous
read his tweets
i can't read his tweets - as he protects them for his cronies &amp; pushers!!
i dmed them to u



power tripping and changing answers mid way through the event
and they kicked my friend cus she glitched sigh
sort your fansites out!!!
yeah its acc ridiculous, now she cant get back in :(



or maybe if i went to bed at a decent time it wouldn't be so bad 
so curtis or nah?
yessss meet you in the lobby dobby...at 7:30 lmao
i'll be sitting down there at 7:29 lol



did you know that following me 10 times on soundcloud will not get you a follow back? if i like what you make, you'll get followed i promise
did you know that spamming your song on my mentions won't even get me to open your song?
and i don't wanna sound mean or anything.. it's just not the right way to approach anyone..
why don't u promote more dvbbs :/



i apologize, johnny. #rebels beat the helicopter sabers with "ezra won the clone wars". looking like 3 good eps this season
ep 28 this thursday!!!
hopefully not in the dftg segment :d
lol no



#whatimgoodat forgetting why i walked into a room. i'm not just good at it, i excel.
they actually did a study. walking through doorways makes your brain reconfigure. if u go back2 previous room, u'll remember 
well i tested the theory...it worked! hopefully it does next time, and the next time,  and the next time, etc...lol.
learn something new every day!!



just knocked my first racist athens frat boy out.  how y'all gone try to jump me cause your girl asked to come home with me?
it's lit!!!!!!!
niggas tried to jump me 
you got jumped by some dudes wearing vineyard vine? lol



look at my asthma being a dummy.
rosemary tea w cod liver oil. try it sometime.
goshhh cod liver oil?
substitute for fresh whale oil then



dogs are beautiful and perfect i love all of them
i love dogs more than you
ditto
this doesn't even make sense stop



someoneeee talk to mee
nobody wants to talk to your smelly butt
srry but that's you that stankkk
nah nah thats your upper lip



so how about that warriors super team! whoa! super, indeed!
had to come check your twitter feed as soon as i saw the score this morning.
nothing crazy but hopefully it wasn't a total disappointment... like the warriors.
and utah lost too. big day for you



so blessed to have my mom as my best friend, wow
you avi 
aww, i miss you
i miss you too  i hope browns everything you hoped for and more 



what if my soulmate was a prostitute 
that crap would  screwing suck
i'd just kill her pimp and set her free
like an animal in captivity



sorry reip
ehat
im sorry nhi
what r u sorry for im scared



cant wait for the next #pangea 
why you not here 
i just woke up and by the time i get to clbutt the test gone end  so  screw it.
the crap 85 questions bruh



it infuriates me that i have to use my key to unlock my door to leave my apartment.
easy peasy don't lock the doors.
then anyone could just sneak in and get me!
nah you'll be okay. unless the clowns come.



why ppl be so tight when you ain't following them on here
b butt hurt cause somebody unfollows them 
on gawd loll like i still fwu bro 
cause people let social media control them like gosh dang this ain't real life lmao






no because she has 30 years of political baggage, lots of complex relationships/conflicts, and a serious email problem...
the 'baggage' is all from a relentless misogynistic cottage witch hunt industry press freely regurgitates. it's a gauntlet
she was cleared by doj/fbi on emails and the private personal ones stolen by a hostile foreign state aren't even her emails



i love how i say something about my tradition and my family is the first to write something on fb hahaha
what if it's about me? ayz jk! hope the l is treating you well.  miss my apache!
if its about you then you have no worries!! lawrence sucks without you! i miss my jenny (forest gump voice)
darn!  i bet! this girl sure misses the l,k! are you staying in my old room? haha!



currently starving
eatt
idiot i would i'm in clbutt
lol i'll get food



same exept i started being lazy
miss u !
i miss you too! i miss watchin your broadcasts i still listen to your music a lot and watch your youtube videos every week tho
thank you for watching the videos :)))) i'm gunna be broadcasting more when i am on the road ! but i'm gunna use periscope:)



gad i'm full of itfluff i honestly wish one day just once i can write like squealing rubber burning spin out of control n not look back
i like what you write, no fluff that i've ever seen!
thanx hey i think it's more for me not being brave enough only rarely i get near the border ... like stage fright :)) 
i get that, yup. i think we all get near the border sometimes, and step back or walk away. some days are not the day, right?



found out since i am 3rd gen italian-american i can apply for italian citizenship so why not 
we agree! let us know if you need any help finding italian documents or verifying eligibility
i was told i need my great grandparents' birth certs? &amp; proof they weren't us citizens till after my grandfather was born?
we dmd you



bring you over, i'll teach you how to cook 
i don't need to learn you got me messed up lol
then cook me dinner tmrw night
no idiot you cook your own dinner since you know how to cook so well



have to leave conversation when i'm sent the cx face
same.
its so ugly
na its sick



2000-2016 rap&gt;all of 90s rap
debatable
2000 on gave us ye, gambino, eminem (not a big fan but i respect the wordplay and flow) some outlast, the clipse
but 90s and before started this






why is there no dragon ball z the musical?
if there was i'd be more likely to watch dbz
there was pokemon the musical featuring cast members from wicked and the book of mormon!



je veux, pis en mme temps je veux pas.
roche papier ciseaux?
roche
too bad, ciseaux...



are you in clbutt?
yea he not here yet
dang i think imma come
yea come chloe



imagine painting the same bikeshed 16x!!!
meh. everyone knows you should pai t it 23 times.
moar coats give the bike shed a more robust look
baselayering



i'm srry but ur so ugly with ur pineapple headed butt  can't help it
you're dumb  pineapple head
fr thooo, i seen a pic of this idiot on fb n i just cringed the rest of the day.
i can see your face now! 



 you're profile pic...you so gorgeous!
awwww thank you jackie 
love you  let's catch up soon! missing ya!
yes please 



i watched "hate rising" last night. highly recommended. the corridor scene with ramos and the trump camaign says it all. #nevertrump
i dvred it. haven't finished watching it yet. was at the point where he was interviewing the second guy.
the weirdo nazi groups are as expected - it's the people who might pbutt for normal who are shocking.
cloak the racism in "white nationalism" and all of a sudden it becomes a lot more palpable.



did you hear about the latest bloomberg poll from florida? how anyone can see that man as fit for the office... crazy!
wow! trump+2! on one hand this is bad. on the other hand it's good because it'll make people go vote!
that's a good point, i hope you are correct. hard to understand how we have to keep debating the case against trump.
the man has insulted and discriminated against the disabled, races, religions, nationalities, women! send him to washington!



vampire diaries, season 7, episode 6. i can't with my emotions rn
season 7 episode 9 wtf
just wait. i just finished 7!!!
i'm in tears lol



i need a v good photographer based in minneapolis, who's available sometime between now + next friday. it's for a cover shoot. pls rt!
will get whatever look you're after. he's got a great eye.
thank you!
i've got other recs too, if need be. but start with darin. he's great. 



you can get actual meals at the cheesecake factory???
i have never gone there
yeah, the portions are mbuttive and completely lacking in any seasoning other than pepper, but you can
most people eat then cheesecake



peed 400+ times last night so i feel like i didn't even sleep
you're having a baby!
i'm ready but she's still not making any signs of appearing anytime soon  just chillin on my bladder lol
she's working silently. my second baby did all his work in my sleep, i woke up my plug was coming out &amp; 9cm dilated - i was 



i have a lot of strong feelings about grilled cheese
how about vegan grilled cheese
fun fact: the best grilled cheese i've ever had in my life was vegan
mine too



tomorrow will make 300 days of complete sobriety from all drugs. so proud of myself 
no weed?!
nope!! nothing 
proud of you love 



morning!
morning jamie, how are you?
feeling okay... working to get rid of this fatigue
i hope you're able to overcome the fatigue and have a great day



. ask me anything about a walk to remember.
i based the walk to remember on a different walk that was equally memorable. i was with a dame. she probably was wearing a sweater.
?
i'm currently writing a book about robot boobs called breastworld. i'd like you to review it.



i lost 8lbs in 7 days eating only salads, turkey meat, grilled chicken breasts, grapes, and 2 gallons of water a day.
oh it's lit. congrats boo. i really need to do something.
i gotta lose about 30 more before i go home for tg. i had to tame my sugar crave. i got it under control now
how sway? i need to lose 30 period.



dunkin needs to stop dudein me and let me start working already.
apply to amazon lol
i did the other day. just waiting for an email or a call or something.
bet - i'm 99% sure you'll get hired too lol it's easy money too $12.25 too start off - after 3 months $13.50



i sense an oregon zoo trip when i get home for break to meet the new lil giraffe and nora the polar bear
hi invite me 
hey you wanna go to the zoo this winter break?
hey ya, thanks!! :)



why is #justinbieber still a thing surely 7 year old girls should have moved onto the next talentless disney twat by now #sheffieldissuper
i think you seriously underestimate the # of middle aged women who are hardcore beliebers #creepy
my dad told me under estimate the middle aged lady at your peril!!! haha... also sorry to see the pbutting of your cat
thank you. he will be missed.



just listened to wanted man by cash 9 times in a row bc i forgot the song existed &amp; now i'm having mental breakdown # 1 of the semester yeet
you made it to october 26 without a mental breakdown....teach me your ways freshman
it's a method i like to call: "i have no emotion"
oh  screw that i've tried



you are not a man until you pee blood from your penis
can having a period every month substitute for this?
of course
sick



73 wins and no ring means nothing .r: no #dubnation slander especially if yo team didn't win 73 games last year
lemme have a 2 time mvp, 4 all stars, the only unanimous mvp ever, 2 of the 3 best players, the 3 best shooters, i hate people lol
all that , still lost the finals .
all past tense now lol



don't air out your dirty laundry, handle it in private. twitter is not the place . so many people are doing it now days thinking it's cute.
quit complaining before i pop off on twitter
 see you in clbutt?? do let leave me hangin.. again 
correction... don't



still waiting for brett eldredge to accept my thirst date
still waiting for you to visit me
oops lol
 cmon



thank you for wasting all that packaging and postage to send me an ipad box containing only an ad for your product....but why?
we're always testing creative ways to reach out to people, sorry the offer didnt resonate with you. thanks for your feedback!
sure. thing is, i'm not an app developer. i run mobile strategy for a dsp, so i guess i'm just curious how i got on your list.
our solution is meant for mobile strategists to help drive engagement within their apps. you can dm us to learn more.



i'm going to get crucified for this, but it needs to be said:dogs are overrated.
we're over
\_()_/
all three of my dogs and i are on our way to fight



lmfao i stayed up knowing i have to open tomorrow, for this
smh
who u tellin
go to bed!!



thank you so much for everything 
idk what i did but you're welcome lol
today thank u for being u
i'll always be me love  i'll annoy you one day lol



i just watched the gilmore girls trailer and i am sobbing
legitimately got emotional i couldn't look at the screen the whole time lol
omg i had goosebumps and just so many tears especially the funeral scene!
can't wait  kinda mad i know were gonna finish it in a day tho 



i can't stay long. i didn't have internet all day yesterday. walking dead. i felt like i needed a grief counselor afterwards.
yes. shook me up. dreamed about it so got up at 3 am,couldn't sleep. why no internet? cable?
something wrong somewhere...
well ur back on. modem quit last nite,problems this am-changes on device mgr i didn't do



off to work at midnight! if you hear a tiny scream at some point tonight, don't worry, it's just my body clock's death rattle. 
no sympathy.  have kids...
at least they pretty reliably screw your sleep cycle! one random solo opposite, nocturnal schedule shoot day screws me for days 
just do the coffee and benedryl trick.... then you'll never get the circadian rhythm back to normal... ;-)



lmfaoooo y'all still tying ciara to future? weird.
every time it's annoying
lmfaoooo idk why? she's married. and he's living his life. she's in the same situation as a lot of women but she's famous. 
cause they a son together. but everytime her and russell do something they gotta bring his name up 



can't decide if it was the 178 new emails or my personal trainer that was the toughest challenge on returning from #vacation. #backtowork
welcome back!!! missed ya :)
i think more than 10 days has gone by since i sent you any panicked emails. what?! 
and i missed it!! been dealing with a different kind of panicky state - press the button and i'm hopping!!



so upsetting
sooo let's get a win thursday ??????
when they learn, that a hockey game is 60min long...maybe yes..
ok yes so true !!!!



why am i crying 45 seconds into watching a random episode of the voice for the first time?
this almost happened to me last night!! must be some weird phenomena.
it automatically came on after shark tank and now i'm emotionally drained!
my demise came from refusing to change the channel after #jeopardy



i need somebody to go to six flags with
bye
you gon be boo'd up 
no i'm not  i wanna go to fright fest!



does anyone else need the word "hug" typed in between a pair of asterisks? apparently i am giving those out this morning. just let me know.
sure i will gladly accept a "hug".
*hug*
why thank you 



that first loss a fluke
kd fluke
how?
cause he a dude butt nigga. blow a 3-1 lead to them niggas. then join they team. he had a squad. should a went to the finals.



what the hell am i supposed to be for halloween?
me? live a day in the life of sara weaver i'll loan you my northface uggs and daddy's starbucks card
the you-est you thing i've ever heard!
then when i go as a starbucks frapp we will match 



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
trust yourself and believe you will become great with your team



all have a theology, what we think to be true of gosh, &amp; a creed (written or unwritten), what we say to be true of gosh. what informs it?
excellent question. what do you believe the answer to be?
sola scriptura.
are you sure?  



no offends i'm ready for it to rain again for at least 3 days
why
it's calming
i love that answer



my mom left ! time to get naked and make grilled cheese.
it's safe to say i have grown up from this lads
dude. like the first thing i did when my roommates moved out was stop wearing pants all the dang time.
lmfao clbuttic ted



me: *finds any excuse to get someone to eat din tai fung with me*me: you're a human! let's eat pork dumplings!!!
um...i believe you have my number...
lissa lets go be not kosher!!
the treyf-est



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
dang, i started crying when randall was making a shake in the first minutes. went downhill from there. 
i'd say next week would be different but i already cried at the trailer. "i don't want to be different" #thisisus
i am hoping what i think i saw for next week is wrong. i love william. can't even think about it.



yall just gotta let the game speak for itself
best tweet i've seen all night
real easy to talk comes down to who's actually about it
it's true



yk you're an adult when you want a slow cooker for christmas
slow cookers are an adults best friend. i'd be lost without mine
i can't wait 
they're so amazing in the winter too bc everything smells nice and the food is warm 



i can't believe the legit trash that snapchat is allowed to post. if my kids had snapchat i would not want them able to see this garbage.
you talking the sponsored snap stories?
yussss
yeah seems very desperate:/



haven't we just come to accept tyrod being a game manager? knowing he doesn't really have any of his weapons
is it really fair to cast judgement on some of these pbuttes that he's making at this point because he doesn't have
many options
you just want to see him make plays with what he has. but he hasn't. it's troubling



thank you to everyone who is concerned, but i am watching ever pitch so i don't need your constant texts, snaps, and updates. #gocubsgo
i'm sorry i didn't snap you. i'm still concerned for you, just simply forgot. #flythel
in every way possible
well obivi



also need to find some peeps who play cod. been saying that as well lol. miss having a 6man team. #cod4
i miss having a four man snd group, does anyone still play cod? has it been put to rest. held x to pay respects? #cod4revivial
80% of ppl i've played with vanished. some reason finding ppl to play with is harder then i thought.i underestimated the quest
but then again cod is slowly dying out and other games are sliding in. devs think we need crazy crap to be content. #wrong



just finished the last episode of that 70s show! now what am i going to do with my life??
i finished it last week and honestly i still don't know what to do with myself
like there isn't anything else to watch on netflix
no you pretty much just need to start over



hungry af 
lol bruce tell u about that buttwhooping i gave him
nope how bad
nigga choked lmao let me get a onside kick  and after i missed the extra point for the tie



you been mad disobedient ma
stop live tweeting now liz
aight son chill
u being mad disobedient you 14 year old get to bed



y'all corny
corn is far superior to wheat as a crop
o
wheaty butt



for everyone that doubted me, just know i'm doing perfectly fine. gosh has blessed me with more than i deserve!!
proud of you beba 
i love you
i love you tons muah! 



our heat is fixed ybutts! our apt was for real colder inside than it was outside  &amp; im not even the big baby, it's wade and sherb 
girl you probably felt at home with that cold apartment, it's like being at your dad's 
lmfaoooo  i'm seriously dead. my dad was like it's still 55 in my house  specially him being @ grans 24/7.
he might as well sell his entire furnace honestly. make a couple bucks and buy some coca cola.



hot take prediction: bayh is gonna lose.
why do you think that?
i think he's flawed and easily open to these lobbyist washington crony attacks (because, well, he kind of is). &amp; i'm a pessimist
you're not wrong



any ios #developer looking for a #job in bangalore at a disruptive healthcare #tech #startup with excellent programming skills? #iosdev
is remote an option?
the work demands high collaboration with designers, so  the developer needs to be on sight.
oh ok thanks



good (dark &amp; early) morning it's a seat heaters all the way up kind of a day! #cold
good morning to you too! heated seats are the !
i'd be lost (or frozen) without them.
me too... gets me thawed out on the way to work. 



38 degrees? is this real life?
thank gaaaaaaaaaawd for automatic start...
i installed that in my durango when i lived up the mountains:)
i made sure...my car had it...even my truck...lived too long warming cars up...at my age..i had to  say no mas!



almost off....i'm tired too
*waves*
hey boo heeeyyyyy 
have a good sleep. 



win every single video game 
bc he's a nerd 
he has me playing battleship through imessage right now 
at least he plays w you! anthony wouldn't play me in pool 



had me loud asf laughing " unh unh don't do that " 
lol girl you play too much i was serious 
my gma was like what's wrong w. you 
lol you jus too dang silly 



if i could hit puberty at some point that'd be gr8
honestly, same.
dude you're like 7 feet tall how much more puberty could you undergo
the acne never stops.



take the loss, teach your kid better next time, and get the  screw out of my face
did you tell her that
yeah. i'm unemployed again
ayyee  i knew it



bored... sleepy... can't sleep...
it's way past ya bedtime
i'm grown nephew
 stop calling me nephew



moving is so stressful 
where to ?
fontana!
you're going to be so much closer to me 



i gotta be at footlocker early af 
y'all got some black n white air force ones with the tan bottoms mid top
idk i'll look when i get there
what one you work at



im callin in dead for work.
still makes me laugh
this was me today. again. 
i feel that on an emotional level... 



gotta drive my butt all the way put to schaumburg this morning 
noap
for a 4 hour meeting....bih...
i pray your skrenf in the lawd



just spent my morning giving podcasts 5 star reviews.
like share and subscribe, tell a friend, use the promo code: "hamburger" at checkout
oh, you listen to breakfast with a bovine too??
beef and dairy report actually



always feels
 i've shattered my phone like 27 times everybody knows me at chico iphone repair..... they should start a stamp card for me
at this point they really should! i don't know how you deal with it :/
it's so annoying that's why i was getting mine fixed all the time  especially when it cracked the camera too..



im about to loose the smalllllllllllll little bit of patience i have left in me if this website does not let me schedule my dang clbuttes
dont use wifi go to a computer lab or something
just walked down to my computer lab &amp; still wont work omfg
oh well idk mine worked fine it only took me like 3 trys



the days just keep getting harder &amp; it needs to be the other way around
hurts me to see you this sad, there will be better days to come 
it may pbutt like a kidney stone, but it will pbutt
thank you amber i love you so much



if that nigga ain't doing you right ,  screw him . somebody gone do you better  just be patient 
i love you kb 
i love you more 
dm me your number



i'll pay someone to run me over with my car.
30 dollars and a coconut water and you got a deal
i'll get you the huge coconut water
that's  screwing romance fam, forget the 30 bucks



just finished stranger things in less than 48 hours... well, crap.
lol dang you ran through that show

lol i'm never going to watch that show so i can't share your dismay



my friends in texas seems there's a problem with the machines. check your vote make them fix it before you send it off. machines by soros
i'm in texas i haven't voted yet
i've been hearing on the news all day. after you vote it switches to hillary so please double check before you hit that button
yes that's why i haven't voted yet



i have a question for wiley sos
just finished it! here to save your night 
how the heck do you draw the reaction arrows and the curved arrows for 10-12
how or where?



#stillrecsquad
good looking brody... no mook crap but i miss you #original lilbro
facts miss you too bro, give alfred work, they're talking crazy lol
facts...i'm gonna stay quiet tho



why did you fall sleep
what??? im still up bff wym 
esque you took long 
oh fr... whoops 



i definitely don't like coconut water
it's the best 
:( it's sucks but i'll still drink it cause it's healthy
lol not everyone likes cause there's really no flavor



working these next 8 hours without headphones are gonna be brutal
do you still work at safeway??
yes
are you doing night crew?!



btw i did make a cruise playlist this year!!!  once i go over it i will find out who wants it so you can relive #nkotbcruise2016
thanks megs!! as i heard a song yesterday on bourbon, i may have busted out in dance like i was still on lido. 
im totally chair dancing at the moment
lol! and this is just one reason i love you!  



fourth, qpf amount. think 1-2" covers it. could see a few higher amounts midcoast w/secondary low. slightly lower amts possible n mountains.
that should put a nail in the drought for many locations. precip still below normal but not drought level i'd think.
sadly not. we'd need the next 2-3 months to replenish all the water. 3yr deficits 12"+. a step in the right direction though!
3 year deficit? not in my part of maine. i'm not aware of any part of maine in a 3 year drought. it's well less than a year here



very sad one of my childhood teen idols has pbutted, r.i.p bobby vee , you took care of this baby, love janis xxx
so sorry for your loss janis. i never heard of him but i am sure he was wonderful if you loved him. xox
hi marge, you must have heard his songs, look him up on youtube you will be surprised! love janis xxx
i will look him up janis. i am always into finding new music. i will let you know what i think. thanks for sharing. xox



it's 4:50 in the morning and i'm soo unbelievably irritated with myself bc i drank an energy drink at 9 for no dang reason
what were you thinking lol
i was trying to hang out and actually be social when everyone got home from closing ;p
well i mean, you can't be mad because those were some good intentions lol



dua lipa 
ahhhhhhhh she's amazing! &amp; her songs are pure magic
ikr!!! 
listen to transviolet too they have this minimalistic vibeee



and trippy
triiiiippppyyyy
aciiiiiid vibesssss
i feeeeeeeel iiiiiiiiittt



i hope the cubs lose
quit hating, just accept that the cardinals suck 
they just had a rough year  they don't suck
uh huh 



love joel armia.  he gives his all. #nhljets
is he finally there? wjhc stud! took some time.
looks like they are grooming him as pk. he's got more offense than half the forwards.
pk? that's garbage. top 9 f easy.



im already regretting my bandwagon choice.
we were supposed to choose a bandwagon?
im a cubs fan for the next two weeks
oh i'm skipping ws this year.



so today something cool happened
did you quit???
why should it be cool haha
dont know, thats what im asking



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
im sure that was his last thought, mol.



i don't get people who brush their teeth before breakfast
a family i babysit for makes their kids do that so they're respectful and don't have bad breath in front of guests.
disrespect?? who has guests that early idc if i ate butt the night before i will not have my breakfast taste like death
i dont do it either but i just wanted to let you know thats why some people do it



who wants to do the umg 4v4 snd "no heatwave" today at 7pm est?
u paying i'm down
i dont creddy people.
u should creddy me tho



i liked instagram much better before every new follower was a business account or "entrepreneur".
i liked it for three days until i realized they steal the rights to your photos like facebook.
and post them here instead. why link to another site owned by facebook to show my pics?
and retain the rights.



now if y'all find out this baby really future's, somebody @ me. then y'all can burn the dang tl down
baby?! what baby?
ciara caught the preggnits from russ lol
chile...i saw that one coming.



good morning everyone. to my true cub fans, today's a new day to even the series. #flythew #letsdothis #worldseries
last time cubs got shut out 6-0 in the playoffs the next game they score 10 runs
precisely. how quickly fickle bandwagons and oblivious indians fans scan over this tidbit.
got so tired of people last night talking how this team is done like come on it was one game last was frustrating but come on now



finally my ex works in a pharmacy,so whenever i want to spoil her mood i just go there n buy condoms for no reason,somtyms i go 3 tyms a day
if it was a guy...at least every 3 days i will go buy the emergency pill
??
lost??



everyone at the bar thinks i'm hispanic
but i'm actually just irish and hungarian 
really? you look asian to me
 i think i just look white



im just sitting in the winco parking lot in my car because thats what you do at 12:15 when youre feeling directionless.
awh buddy. this just made me sad. go get you some zebra cakes.
i have ben and jerrys in my bags.
good man.



buy me lots of undies, art supplies and makeup and i will be at your beckon call 
....beckon
is there something wrong with what i said lol
it's "beck &amp; call," 



#hereiamwithher. voted for our #hillary yesterday. shimmy, tears, for my grandmothers.
well, expect a lot more tears after we end up in more endless wars.
did my part in halliburton's war. still, #hereiamwithher. says a lot : my support is not just about her gender.
i didn't like that war either....she's a george bush in a pantsuit.



wait whos coming to w me on friday for my bday dinner ):
what time again?
8:30 :d
lit, i'll be there like 15 mins late cause thats the time i get off, but i'll be there so save me a seat.. all of garden right?



smoking hot white model in fake glbuttes. "she's average! look at her glbuttes! who couldn't relate to her"-secret deodorant. #closethewagegap
that's foolish. glbuttes make every girl 15% hotter
funny. it makes guys 75% hotter.
crap. i gotta stare at the sun. daddy's gone turn 2 a dam 7



i put a lot of thought into my latest instagram caption not gonna lie
i dig it
i dig u
waking up to this was probably the best start to the day 



is it insomnia when you're woken at 4am by still more unpleasant dreaming, then can't get back to sleep?
also had similar waking time. segue to a remedy but dunno what yet, only begin.was 38 overnight, toofirst sign of 30s...
sorry to hear you were up too. i think we both need to get some grilled cheese ingredients in the house soon. #johndeeparty
last night(or was it the night before?)i felt like a mouse.partner left 1sliver of jalapeo jack which i gobbled b4 midnight



pavy got a hit with until the morning. crap knocks like a mf
appreciate it my g
also. drift... i ain't got enough superlatives for that jawn. crap slaps. period.
glad you enjoying the record man that brings me joy



good morning maddy
good morning kate 
i love you have a good day today. it's hump day!
i love you too! and you have a great hump day as well 



work is way too easy today lmao
where you work?
walmart
cashier or?



i think this dude is drunk sending me kissy emojis l o l

estas pedo?
let me find out



popping bottles type of week 


see you friday perra






oak brook has them !
where's that?
oak brook mall lol



say hi :) i'm a really friendly person :)
good :) how are you?
i'm great, do you still play ttr? i used play it but i got bored, maybe i'll play it again one day when i get nostalgic enough.
it's getting boring



is sword art online 2 worth watching
meh. sao 1 was better. it's a lot more real world than virtual for kirito. not a huge fan.
lame. i'm more into the virtual world part of sao.
yeah me too. sao 2 is based in ggo (gun gale). when he's in that it's dope but there wayyy more real world than i'd liked.



joe scarborough looking for every single shred of evidence to support the idea that trump isn't going to get railroaded in 2 weeks.
this has been one of the most annoyingly frustrating things to watch the past few weeks.
i get it, it's a show and he needs to maintain his persona, but get real dude. his path to 270 is harder than a rubik's cube.
i like joe, most of the time, i like the show a lot, i get frustrated with both him and mika at times, but they do a good job



my last draw meet w/kids: this 15 year old girl looked through my iphone texts right in front of my friend....like bruh u dont do that....
what the... that's so rude and creepy???
it was so......creepy and the whole time she was trying to get my attention but in a very wrong way
:-( hopefully w age restriction it'll be less creepy?? like wowowow that was so invasive and over the line



where was #rudygiuliani the past few years....under a stone? he doesnt know anything, what he knows is what #donaldtrump told him
nohe knows what anyone can see. is she so specialyou would have been locked up for just one of her wrongdoings #truthmatrs
maybe in russia, turkey, north korea and others. where i come from, #donaldtrump could never run for anything the way he is
who are we talking aboutchris cuomo w/rjuliano or trump because i can talk to you about either #truthmatrs



let's hear about how the warriors game was rigged tonight!
dude, seriously, leave her alone.
i would if i stopped getting promoted tweets for her tv show. doubt she's losing any sleep over my tweets.
as a  run tmc era warriors fan, i'm sick to death of cleveland, so, we're even 



its brick outside
i've never heard anyone use brick like that 
dont judge me linda 
i'm not lmao but is that supposed to mean cold? 



i wanna dm #oomf to talk about something, but i'm scared.
shoot your shot
, lol nahhhh don't wanna come off weird. have you talked to neicha?
lol you won't! &amp; not recently i meant to hit her up to check on her.. everything cool?



if i ever get married and someone decides to propose to their significant other during said wedding, ooooooh, hold me back.
i don't get it
if someone gets proposed to during my wedding
u would be mad ? lol



watching gowdy , jordan, chaffetz &amp; others spank that a**, truth wise
the last rivets in a sinking ship trying to hold this thing together
i don't think you should talk to a guy with the username francis marion about sinking ships :)
i may miss the jk, if that's how it was meant,infer he was in a ship wreck?if meant n a crbutt way,what shld i b thnkn about



thanks for following, hope you're well?
u r so very kind. i've been hanging on since my last brain resection in 2010. but seeing some light beginning to shine! how r u?
we're great thank you. have a good day :)
great is awesome to hear my friend!!!! remain blessed!!!! 



don't sleep on me.
i'm sleep
last time you did it cost you the tournament. goodnight christopher.
dang man. my career



y'all ever heard of the movie teeth?
yes! i watched that a few months ago. 
dude that crap is wild
inspect that crap first 



i'm on a pretty good streak of actually watching movies now - 3 nights in a row. no country for old men, steve jobs, &amp; there will be blood.
now someone give me a recommendation for a newer movie to watch tomorrow night, gotta keep the pattern going. old new old new.
watch all the other coen brother's movies you haven't seen.
still haven't seen hail, caesar. i've seen most of the rest but have a few old ones left



just saw a facebook interaction where a guy from brooklyn got actually g checked for never owning timberlands or a yankees fitted
2016 is the best/worst year ever
i never owned timbs cause i've always been poor but i definitely owned lugz
new cbuttel.



i use to be on 54th and gaskill with them killas
from 74th and mac
i use to be on 64th but up the street on that 1 way lol
most wild crap i ever seen happened on 55th and international



i might eventually app an oc soon. i think i finally found a good faceclaim for her.
eye emojis. where
in citta. she's a smol cutie pls take care of her
um. freddy can't take of her but kyra will when i bring her



i can't wait til she tells me something about her dog so i can say "oh your cat" same thing
i cannot stop laughing reading these tweets lol
like i shouldn't be mad but i am... i said husband on phone like 5x... obviously i can't be on my bf loan. i'm not retarded
she's probably like "oh this is one of those girls that just calls her bf husband for fun" 



welp cs?
let's play cs brother
just got into bed lol
 screw sleep :) let's goooooooo



8:38 am over here and it's my day! can i please  get a day tweet? love from belgium 
happy birthday rose hope you have a fun day.
thanks! plan to lunch with best friend and have lots of girly talks 
sounds like fun.



that doesn't mean i'm ignoring the fact the duplicate rate was way too high.there needs to be an element of dupe prevention for ev sales.
i love the festival. it's the pay+rng that sucks! at least the dupes give silver...
silver dust for dupes isn't good enough imo, if someone spends 40 bucks, they should get the whole collection of cosmetic items.
i absolutely agree. but i guess that's all we get for a silver lining. 



so all of a sudden it's  screwing winter today?? okay. fine.
girl it's cold but not winter cold.
it was a stupid wind storm when i left my cozy 75 degree home, winter enough for me!!
hahaha. you going to uzi next week?



joey bada$$ - devastated just heard it. new favorite song.
no1 cares
basic
ur basic for tweeting me the same thing u just texted me 



"redesigning the program" shouldn't affect the people already in the program this drastically. it's sad and upsetting.
you ok?
school is rough at the moment 
here if you need it!



i'm really a real butt chick 
you alright lol
lol i ain't fake . and ain't no idiot in me lol
you not , i fwy baby 



idk if i should take a double shot or a nap to power through tonight
i took a double shot and a nap and still haven't done anything
u r my spirit animal
hahahaha i'm so flattered. 



if i smoke with you and you take my lighter i lose all my respect for you
took my last  screwing lighter too 
you took your own lighter?
don abdy jr.



14 days and our president will be
i thought you were wasted man lol
not tonight im tryimg to save energy til halloween
what you on dude? dm me if necessary



a dope butt drive in movie would be legit 
why are you awake 
because i am on a 24hr staff duty detail lol so im awake alll night and day 
that's awful. and i thought night shift was bad 



anybody wanna snapcash me money for some kanye merch? thanks
i bought lots of it in oakland &amp; 2 items today.
frame a shirt. memorabilia!
good idea. not sure which one.



tomato sauce makes spaghetti taste really good.
no greater fact based truth has ever been revealed on twitter.



do not buy into the conventions about mpb - it is just a bromide for those who are incapable of pulling it off.



"what are you going as for halloween?""a sexy blt"
what does that even mean?
bacon. lettuce. tomato.
much sbutt  i was just confused on the sexy part



why does my phone always act up whenever apple drops a new phone 
because that's how they get you to buy the latest.. lol i fell into the trap and got the 7. pretty awesome though 
haha yeah i know, mine is supposed to be here . got the iphone forever thing haha
i swear it took forever for mine to come in. i wanted the jet black but that wouldn't come in till almost  #nope 



hi fellow white people, newt's hateful behavior last night doesn't make megyn kelly less racist. lavishing her with praise is disrespectful.
if trump didn't insult her last year, do you think she'd really be anti-trump? i honestly question her motivation
it just doesn't sync up with her typical opinions and behavior as a person
no, she's definitely a garbage racist.



it's crazy how modern presidents have this kind of celebrity status among society now
they are now literally like puppets of the country, just for show
idk i don't see them as "puppets for show", but they do have that sense of publicity you know? the famous kind of publicity
yeah



my work calendar got cleared for the whole week b/c of an ask from senior management to design a presentation slideshow for our shareholders
oh my gosh ... i wish my schedule could be cleared
ehhh, this presentation is so critical and they need so much detail crammed into it, it suuuuucks
oh... i shall rejoice then



dude i'm so done with myself!  today i kept saying omg i got a muscle spasm when really it was a cramp 
extraness 
foreals dude  i'm  screwing stupid
lmao it's ok girl i be extra like that for no reason specially when something hurts 



i'm cold but can't cover myself because my cat is asleep on my blanket :(
move they cat...they'll be fine..
but he looks so peaceful :)
it'll take him 10 seconds to get comfy again..he's a cat



i've had four bowls of cheerios this morning ama
uncomfortably full? can you feel your cholesterol dropping?
no and no, sadly.
darn! i will record these notes for research



at 2:30am something accidentally woke me up and i started gettting ready for work. didn't realise the time until after i'd showered! whoops!
do you run a fruit &amp; vegetable stand in paris?
no?
it's a scene in amelie. she sets his alarm to 3am.



im in vegas
blackjack tonight??
yes! i'm at ballys
i'm coming bby



lady's, there is nothing wrong with acting like a woman, liking girly things, and having woman like mannerisms.
i'm sorry, but there are so many things wrong with this tweet.
spelling wise or me talking?
both.



tell me why i thought u were henry
what how lol
but you're ray?
yeah lol



i was in the fittig room and tyra banks told me i look goooood
you made it
she has a fatty
i'm lowkey not even surprised



how can you be 25 and not know how to boil water...
how can you be above the age of ten and have consumed either kraft mac n cheese or top ramen and not know how to do this??
mommy is always there for you i guess
sml... my little brother get on me when i tell them to make food. since i'm the oldest i'm the sub. he can still boil water though.



someone want to write this essay for me  any of you rad dope feminists??
down
are you really though??
i'm in women and gender studies



practicing goat tying my foot rn &amp; i've rope burned it.. bad..
you're doing goats? lol
ybutts!!! i trained jd for it &amp; richard just taught me how to tie so all i need is a goat.. can i use cisco lol?
ha! you have lost your mind! hell to the nah can you use my baby cisco!  #dude



car door handle lol random thoughts.

on the chally?
lol nah on the good ol coachella camry hahaha



i hateeeee when i go somewhere in my work clothes and someone yells "where are my wings?!" geezus. stop. 
hooters? 
lolol bdubs
my bad 



car: *almost hits me*me: what the  screw?! hit me next time idiot!!!!!
getting hit by a car would actually be so cool tho. id be in the hospital have an excuse to miss school. plus i might die! (:
or, sue the driver for damages and have them pay off your student loans
crap that too!!!



and nick lol
we'll be waiting for you to come back 
i'm counting the days jos!!!!! we will have to have a crazy party when i get back 
you already know



hahahahahahah i have to get up at 6:30
yikes, get to bed!
youre not in charge of meeeeeeee
its a mere suggestion! :o



i saw my ex boyfriend liked some idiot photo on ig and i am hurt...haven't talked to him since two fridays ago 
smh what happened now
lmao bish we been broke up for almost 2 weeks now
'broke up' '2 weeks' why lie



has had my back and stayed true since middle school. i appreciate you boo. you are rare
aw babe i love you 
love you! see you soon?
see you saturday 



u weak af if u let twitter ruin your relationship
y u preaching this late
i'm in dr in the lobby waiting on my room so i'm talking crap lol
oh nah keep doing your thing young gunner !! 



&amp; i meant 2 u
its very true, thanks for all you did. i will miss seeing you there next year. come to the tweet up in a disguise?
we you recognize me in elvis outfit?!
well, yes haha. there is time to find a new disguise, although elvis would awesome



the fact we let this nigga slide with 30 lates is absolutely beyond me either
i was late every single day for 6 years. lol.
lmao are you serious omg did they never write you up?
like once, but i was their best employee. they never actually did anything 



... this should be a disaster
rudy that cleaned up nyc is the lane he need to stay in
i used to like him. he's gone nuts this cycle.
back in the day i thought he was a sdude in for the white house



hey howie...how bout you send a mid rounder to chicago for jeffries...and send ertz to the niners for smith. solves 3 problems#eaglestalk
no i still like ertz
i'm over him. so many tes out there that strike fear into opposing defenses...he's in year 4 and nowhere close to doing that
to me ertz doesn't get targeted enough to make an impact.. now he's in chipping and blocking and you see less



can't wait for the party &amp; jeremih show
i tried buyin tix for me n the homie but they sold out im mad now the prices are inflated as a mug :(
the prices they're going for now are how much the meet &amp; greets were 
im dumb for procrastinating like i knew my dumb butt wanted to go i shouldve bought them as soon as it was announced



35f outside. yuck.
we're going to hit 100 tomorrow
we're booking a flight, now.
bring sunglbuttes and flip flops



insurance increased yearly prior 2 #obamacare existing. quit lying2voters
insurance rates go up because people don't know what the er is for
that's a factor, keep in mind, local dr's office rejects none insured
but i'm not talking about uninsured going to er though



please keep my dad in your prayers. 3rd time called down to the hospital this month, hoping this is the time the transplant finally happens.
surgery is on! please continue the prayers, now comes the long part! gosh is good.
i'm at the hospital. dad's surgery started around 2-3 am. please keep those prayers up for a tough 8-10 hour transplant. gosh is good.
praying so hard man! im happy for your family that he's finally getting the surgery he needs.



why the hell did i take calculus
aren't you excited for our test tomorrow 
i'm so screwed 
so stressed 



you can get away with whatever you want in life. you just have to be beautiful.
consensus is women disappear to society around forty and i only got 14 years to go
yeah it's terrifying. i feel like if i don't have a family i'll probably kill myself before 50.
i can't wait to rock my 40s though, single or not. i want to be that 40 year old with too much confidence and too high of heels



i can never find someone to study w me
hmm
you "only study by yourself"
i just don't like people talking to me and distracting me when i'm trying to study 



chilis 3 for me...$10
chilis what where?!
nation wide
are you coming back?



haha i just remembered that i served a plate of pasta that had a screw driver in it ????? that was frikin random
"um excuse me miss, there happens to be a screwdriver in my noodles and i'm not too happy about it"
yeah it went a lil something like that... except she was cool with it, ate the screw driver then choked and died
u murdered someone with pasta. i'm calling the authorities.



november is gonna be lit! traveling every weekend... arky game, medical school interviews in al and iowa, lsu game, fsu game. i'm excited! 
i lived in iowa for awhile when i was younger.... iowa city is decent, cold as crap in the winter... super freakin cold.
i've never iowa. never visited, never traveled through, nothing. the school i'm interviewing at is in des moines.
it would be a big adjustment for sure. i'm a florida baby. i would need like a life clbutt on snow, ice, frozen pipes, driving...



finally coming to terms with reality: i am not going to vegas for #phish 
me either.  but i'm doing the 2 night st. louis umphreys halloween instead. 



is doing 2 nights! i'd be there if i lived closer



says you're a pretty cool guy. just droppin' in to say hi.
yoyo! shoutsout to adam then
cool, will do. pringle, i was just curious if i'd be ok to like chat n' stuff i got my mind all racing about stuff
yeaa sure, i dont mind, is it anything important?



really debating on applying to the prison. the pay is so good, and i already got my connect to get me in. but is the risk worth it ?! 
im on the sameeeeee boat
such a risk... like is it worth it ?
i'm sayinggg  but that check is crazy too i'm here doing a pro &amp; cons list about it



i miss mommy 
i miss u too honey

dm or text me ur fan mail addy so i can send u and ur roomies a lil sumthn sumthn



snapchat talking about her crush made me smile so much that was way too cute 
hahaha i know i'm totally gonna regret this in the morning but that voice changer this is so fun lol and i can't sleep ugh 
it's so cute! talk to him! compliment him anything! hah
dude i literally freeze and look away and like just go the other way 



need my squad for 4 v 4 football
word
ill get mt own 4 and straight crap on yall
bruh we about to pick up brennan .



i've tried almost everything for my acne, &amp; i think proactiv did the job compared to the hundreds of dollars i spent on prescription creams
i didn't think anyone understood my struggle...
you should try proactive! it actually work for me. also oatmeal-bar soaps, like the mexican ones!
thank you!! i'm trying like this african bar right now!



anymore makes me a depressed child

i love you
i love you too erin!!



fall down seven times, stand up eight.
i love this. i'm not sure why... but this just hit me in the gut!!!
it's definitely an eye opener. you know what i mean?
i do i do! specially for us actors (:



this is about to be the greatest weekend of my life
no because you aren't seeing me
trueee but you need to come out here and have some fun 
i know i want to so bad! ashlee is going up in like 2 weeks but i don't think i'll be able to get work off



wish i was rich and didn't work, so i wouldn't have to make this drive every morning at 6:15
hell yea
crap sucks
hell yes lol



late night thought: want in n out.
imy
imu! come home 
not til thanksgiving! 



before. what do people like?
whys your grandfathered plan ending? we are good about letting you keep those
i dont know. i only noticed because i got an email that my 5 gb was almost used up. used to get 1024 gb per month.
oh yes the $3 isn't ending. the 1tb/mo was a temp promotion due to the ios9 bug. that has ended.



this guy on jaguars radio right now is going in on allen robinson, telvin smith, rashad greene, and gipson hahahaha
you talking about #twitterlessjeff?
who ever is on 92.5 right now. always listen to them but i don't know his name or the shows name
the drill



when you lose a war, you usually first blame the generals, not the foot soldiers.whose fault is trump? start with folks like priebus.
whos that
the slack-jawed yokel in charge of the rnc.
ohhh. yeah, if trump had got the nomination without any help from the rnc then i'd still be calling myself a republican now.



local government in 1 word only - so far i only have 'struggling' and 'heterogeneous'... any more? it's important #odisummit research :)
"constrained"
thanks rob, that's a good one! see you in seoul soon - or will you be in london for the summit too?
wish i could be at summit but i have data for good (canada's datakind) responsibilities next week... see you in seoul!



kids are greatest gift of all 

and the man is extra but even with it without your kids are there! motivators!! 
that part 



why is pas such a heavy sleeper !
"i wasn't even sleeping" nigga you was snoring vincent every time
that's pas too ! like you were just snoring nigga wym you weren't snoring? then who was ? casper ?
could have been kidnapped but you wouldn't know bc you was dead sleep 



your upgrades to a middle seat are not acceptable! seriously!
hi, karen. please direct message you ticket number. i will take a look.  *mr
the flight is full.
the response from the check in desk was to read the fine print! i find that also unacceptable!



woke up to sportscenter highlights of the warriors getting 30 pieced.... , what a good morning it is!!!!
nothing good bout that sir
spurs played great and kawhi is a monster!!! glad to see they came out ready to ball
always had been



do the barrage of cardstock vote blah on blah! mailers actually inform anyones vote? is there actually any math on that anywhere?
just prior to the big day. its hard to know how much is mailers vs tv vs friends vs overheard conversations at starbucks.
it just feels like money thatd be better spent elsewhere
like where? direct mail is one of the more affordable forms of offline advertising in terms of guaranteed impressions from the



miss jaelin det much .. hopefully i get to be w/ him this weekend since we're both off ...

what lol
salty 



in your departments, do graduate students perform any of the admin duties for invited speakers? schedule  travel, itinerary, meals, etc?
nope. we organize and invite for one student lecture but admin does all logistics.
right. this is how it should go i think. everyone is misunderstanding my question. obviously students also meet/greet w speakers.
i get you bro.



first "proper" game of star wars lcg last night, 2 core sets, 10 pods. wow. totally different game. i can see how ppl get hooked...
meanwhile i'm grinding out games getting my decks ready for worlds next week! it's a great game
good luck with that. can't see myself ever playing competitively, but fun to dig bit deeper under the surface
it's really a blast, though this will be my first experience at worlds. the community is really great



good morning i'm thinking deeply about the film the wrestler. may be time for a rewatch.
its cranking its way up to being the best arnofsky film, which is odd
the only things he's done since then are black swan and noah, which i've never seen because i typically don't do bible films
but i'd be lying if i didn't say i was at least pbuttingly curious at aronofsky doing a bible movie.



i'm stressing at the moment.... my student center isn't working... 
mine not my roommates is working. the struggle is real right now
this is annoying.. i guess this happens all the time.. obviously they need to change something
for real



so baby pull me closer
i'm the back seat of your bolder

the pioneers used to ride these babies for miles



. #weare12 
a little jet leg there! what a trip.
for sure. originally one stopover in nyc only which would've cut time but airline changed route. #gohawks
new orleans should be sunny and beautiful! wish i was going!



were off to see the vampire,the wonderful vampire of oz!because, because, because, because,because of the wonderful blood she draws!
absurdly pleased with myself for thinking of this on the way to the lab.
sang it the whole way home, too.
you're simply adorable 



i am the size of louie
big fat pig fat louie
why are u up
idk i woke up randomly weird



duct tape fur suit
r u a furry
yea i watched zootopia and now i cant stop having sex with frogs
you lick frog boots



hi shannon!  thank you for the follow!  have a great day!  :-)
i love kiln creations!  sorry i don't have suggestions for you on your inbox query going through same!
no problem.  i actually found what i think is going to work -fingers crossed.  let's catch up soon!
absolutely



hungry asf
go eat then
buy me something !
mcdonald's 



that's good to hear! what's your thoughts on the possibility that dem hillary clinton will be the first "woman" us president?
looks like it's hers to lose and how blue she can make congress
the dem's need to pick up four or five seats to be the majority party in the us senate on nov 8th? i'm very optimistic!
same here, i'm in jersey this week and watching the swing state ads, it's fierce.



my becky w/the bald hair stalker and his creeypy as fck lawyer: one down, 3 to go.
what's up?? you have a stalker??
a stalker? more than one. but thts par when yr a kenned-- sorry, a pettibon.
i hate to hear i have competition as a rayms obsessor. gonna stomp out anyone who thinks they're a better pettibon stalker.



really wanna start shameless but would also like to keep my sanity
doooo itttt...dooooo ittttt
i already know so much of what happens though id only watch it for ian and mickey lmao
same..i watched it only for them, however they dont really appear that much at first. but i fell in love w the plot&amp;other ppl



robins always hating!!!!!!!!
all i was going to say was he needs to hug his dad's neck bc we have been rolling our eyes since he came on the airwaves
you need to try and sneak that in next time. he really need to know how we feel!!
they said i was banned lol



no but seriously someone drive with me from la to vegas. we can split gas
ight pick me up from stl first though
yeah okay
just drive yourself



meeting with a prospective portfolio lender today then taking my homie to get some lunch... 

trying to get these origination fees tf outta here, beloved lol
"fees too dang high"



for those who don't know...luna is my dog. i woke my gramma up to sing happy birthday to my dog 
going dt this weekend?
yeah i texted you that i'm going friday
where r u gonna go?



how many award-winning dishes or tasting menus have cooked green pepper? probably zero.
like...bell pepper? or any?
green and cooked. tastes like the 80s.
but aside from shicrapo, jalapeo, and maybe serrano, yeah, i haven't seen many green peppers in contemporary cuisine.



got the badge and now my laptop fan can  screwing chill out
the stressssssssssss
my poor  screwen laptop. did u get it??
yhhhhhhh i got it woo!!!!



that plugin works fine on my personal acct. wtfffff
i think it's working now!
oh yea?  cool i'll check tmw. i changed that 0 to a 1
i lie. it was a post i set up. ugh. why can't we win???



my opinion on the hand with benger is that he angled you by making false accusations of breaking the rules to tilt you
definitely the dumbest thing i've read on twitter. maybe ever
you're calling me dumb and yet don't realize that griffin benger can't see kbuttouf's hole cards. you know, that's how poker works
if you read the second part of my comment i say how his attack on kbuttouf was designed for kbuttouf to make a play w/ marginal hand



someone call me
call the suicide hotline
i did they hung up
well kys



that "i just ran down two blocks and up three flights of stairs before 7 am" oh so fresh commuter feeling!
is that a good feeling?
well, it's ok as long as you made your train.
ah i see, good morning btw. hope your day turns out well 



what to do?
right there at jack theres some chicken strips and fries you think you can drop some off? can i pay u with trident gum
i'm shhleeep
lol hella dumb pick me up lets mob to sf



not confident about tonight. think chelsea might steamroll us.
we have an outside chance but it's tough. a lot depends on how seriously conte is taking the competition.least we're improving
they have no europe so i'd imagine it'll be a strong team from them. hopefully it's a good game!
it will get intense if we go beyond 90 mins. like leeds norwich. just so long as we don't see repeats of their weekend lol



why doesn't everyone live in minneapolis? i love this city so much.
i miss it so much. 
come back sometime. it's the best.
planning on it!



i'm a firm believer in "fake it 'til you make it." today, i'm faking a clean &amp; functioning adult w/ some make up &amp; mediocre hair styling.
showering is for squares; unscented baby wipes and tinted moisturizer are for heroes
ybuttsss queen!!! you are so on my wavelength.
always have been, always will be. punk rock middle schoolers for life



i actually punched a guy when the buckeyes lost on saturday so it was nice to see the indians win last night.
poor guy lol
was trashing talking. i warned him. 
lol thats only fair then



people be surprised when i say i'm going to commerce this weekend like i don't go every year. #itsatradition #honorarystudent 
c u there
yaaaaaas!!! ima have to text you girl.
ima dm you my number, text me



finally back in nyc. sleeping at my moms house tonight then back to gaming tomorrow.
 #2016
what?
u don't remember lol in orlando #2016



goodmorning twitter!
done competing?
yep 
hope to see you again friend. take care.



it's saying i can't register at this time yet i have no holds on my account...what howard???
check your credits, how many do you have?
29 yeah i just realized
same. we gotta wait til tomorrow bruh, i'm so upset lmfaoo.



i want  to be in love . make me feel like a woman
i'm trying 
you haven't  even hmu
yes i have 



i just checked your header.....if you ask me i'm ready.
you gonna let me make you an honest hushard?
something close to it for sure! i aint know you was that fine. i thought it was just a pretty face.
lol don't flatter me too much. i might start to believe you.



i applied at fedex ground and ups. 
smh ground is gonna be a idiot should've done freight with the big boys ;)
i tried that couldn't apply
why not fool



i love him.
i love you, cutie.
i know. 
you're so cute, what the  screw. wanna make out with you and touch you.



if i could go one day without not feeling like crap that will be the best day of my life
drink more fiji water!
is that a life changer?
kills all bacteria and sickness in your body 



i would like a quesadilla
i got a quesadilla. follow ur bliss
i want another quesadilla
this is the best thing i've ever seen on the internet!!!



if i don't think about it i won't be sad
+ you're too amazing to be sad
i love you
love u more bb stay smiling



dude from the y ?
ya
bald head butt lol 
hell nah , yo elephant pussy smelling butt



this morning i woke up to a text from the boy im all gitty about &amp; it was a picture of an ugly  baby "dear gosh look at this" hes the one.
same boy or different one
sammme!
when's the wedding



i have been up since 430 just tossing &amp; turning
this exam is going to kill me
that makes two of us! i just went through your snapchat thinking dang dedication!!
i seriously going to cry. i didn't know it was today til i went to my lab last night.



is it shady to go on dates just for the free food asking for a friend
nope. you're trading your time for food.
in that case my current relationship status is "emotionally detached and ready for burritos"
do you have it set as that? hahaha



you have experience with working not working?
no but i've heard of it and know ppl that use it
thinking bout submitting
couldn't hurt!



it's trying to rain on the one day i didn't bring a  screwin umbrella
well goodmorning sunshine
is it is it really
nopeno its not



i ate all my pringles too :( i have nothing to live for
what flavor were they
ramch
good snack choice



being in nursing school is so bad. if i get a stomachache, i immediately start thinking about ch. 25 "gastrointestinal disorders"
ill be reading up on esophageal diverticulum and in the end i just really need to fart. i hate nursing school.
that's me with my muscle aches which are constant i always think i  screwing have fibromyalgia  which i may have but it scares
me because i over think it but ever since i stared i diagnose myself with like cancer when it's just a little ache 



me: wow leslie jones said some transphobic crapsome random: yeah!! she's also a racist against white people!me: ... lol no
i blame trump for a lot of this tbh.
the few who've come into my mentions saying random, ignorant crap have been trump supporters lmao
i rest my case.



imagine being on a cruise ship full of celtic punk band because apparently that's a real thing
it's called the salty dog cruise and flogging molly and dropkick murphys have both played it
can anyone else name another celtic punk band because i for sure can't
yellow stitches man



you know what? f**k clients who don't pay on time. or at all. you do your best for them, and for nothing. have more to say, but will not.
ever been stiffed by someone worth $750,000,000? this guy has!!! lolthat crap is the worst and why i quit working in film.
ugh.
there needs to be an off the record podcast where pro creatives tell horror stories anonymously with their voices modulated!



i'm such a crafty/creative person, that when i don't do anything creative i feel sad. and i want to do so many things but can't decide
let's be like old ladies and start quilting
i know how to knit. lol. and i have a sewing machine so i'm down 
loll okie. 'tis quite satisfying



chandra drunk gets on my nerves man 
hm, don't be  screwing rude! 
u kept saying the same crap over and over 
i did a lot of crap i didn't know i did til i woke up today 



i'm going to get big..  screw all this skinny crap.. i need to store fat cause this cold ain't working for me
be careful
with what ? 
with life



something about blonde hair and blue eyes that just catches your attention.

the homeland
don't forget about the hidden hitler switch that stays lowkey until they get mad at you



these wikileaks emails are all like, pretty reasonable people working together to solve kinda complicated political problems boring
tbh the only real thing that's sticking with me are the "journalists" that were working in tandem with the campaign during primaries
i mean it doesn't look great for journalists, but buttering up a source has a place in the craft
as a retired journalist we/i routinely did much worse crap than pretending we cared about the schmucks we covered



i can already tell this weekend is gonna be one for the books and it only monday
what's going on this weekend?
there's like four or five different parties! i don't even know which one to go too
well crap hmu



just got my ticket for mardi gras round three this year and realized i'll be 21 so 
omg i want to come
yaabuttss, meet up with me! party 
when are you leaving?



lf jungler duo ~ around masters
hey
*ahem* masters
didnt wanna duo anyway w/e



i spent the last hour trying to convince my friend to name her new cat h r puffinstuff to no avail
you know hes in a new show called mutt n stuff? my 2yo is obsessed.
really? i might need to check that out
same guys that made the old show made this one. nod to that show. hes a special guest periodically.



soooo lssu has a former major junior player on their team that's leading their team in scoring... thats not legal#thingsthatmakeyouwonder
but if theres shenanigans there, ill take forfeits on the debacles this weekend.
he also went back to tier 3 juniors for some time too. coaches recruited him knowing he was semi-pro. violation?
i suggest that you refer this to your coaching staff.  tell lance that geof morris sent you.



you know what i'm very very suspicious of? women who exercise without tying their hair back
would you approve of my sweatband look?
yes, i think it's fine. i'm mostly talking about women with straight hair down to their butts!!!
i know what you mean...this is why i will not be returning to the cobble hill pure barre



looking forward the your call with tommy, man. i was in atl up until a few years ago; awesome town.
i've listened for the last couple of hours; thanks for the cool-headed discussion. hope to see you on future broadcasts.
thanks bro. i appreciate the text and acknowledgment.
my pleasure; i hope he takes your advice to heart. i really enjoy his insight, but you were making solid arguments.



recurring theme of speakers at #seu16. not crowdfunding, no iot. bootstrapped design, engineering and fabrication out of garages. proper
then local motors. oh well.
time for their software subs to be paid again?
... don't they use catia for vehicle design?



please tell me you two are connecting at #citylabmia!
missed each other this time. hopefully there will be another opportunity soon!
yes, you two will have much to discuss... when things normalize a bit, maybe we could schedule a short call!
sounds great!



who got more hits flock or shabazz
shabazz
moe get outta here
bruh personally i crank flock more but people i know ain't even listen to mafia ties and i love it



my niece wants a selfie/picture of her placing ballot in machine -- legal in vermont or will she go to the slammer? #btv #vtpoli
legal in vermont!
thanks! it is her first time voting.
exciting! :)



really can't sleep
* pbuttes you the blunt* hit this gbutts
need
i gotchu friday.



i just turned $5 into $105 in 6 rolls. great start to the work day.
what the hell did you have for breakfast. cee lo or craps
bowl of trip 4s
jesus. go get a 20 dollar scratcher on break. let it ride



. i'm all for anything that could get rid of the arrogant umpires
skunk drunk billy martin was a saint back in the day, cocaine 70's-80's,roids in the 90's, now bad upmires?
i just think they make it too much about themselves. a player even looks at them the wrong way they're ejected.
plus, one thing huge totally overlooked item by everyone, 1% of ump's speak spanish, is that a problem?
i'm sure it is a problem, but unless mlb requires them to learn there's not much to be done other than translators



and i understand fsu has worked w/the seminole nation and technically gotten "permission" but that doesn't mean all indigenous ppl approve
like at cmu the college and the local chippewa group work together to do research and to preserve the native culture
that doesn't mean sports teams mocking native americans isn't racist. are you just being dense or what?
hey i'm just trying to understand sorry. by no means am i defending the cleveland indians,  screw that noise, but i brought up
cmu because their mascot is the chippewa and the question has come to change the mascot and the tribe fought to keep it as such



ain't no one ever tryna smoke  i got 9 gs to blowwwww 
smoke
who u with
my cousin
where y'all at b



wishing your ex a happy birthday through letter instead of in text is so cute ..
?????
that's for replying back to me  and it's long story 
8:25 i'll try my hardest to be there
it's starts at 8:45  you better be there! if not imma drag you from your room 



really hungry rn i want in n out
if i would've seen this earlier i would've scooped you up to get in n out smfh
wow smh 
i was craving ino so much 
me too but its closed now so i have to live with it 



are you drunk rn ?
i'm just saying you could do better. why you simpin?
i'm not it's just a good song
tru stay up baby girl 
you too love 



everyone say a quick prayer that i don't cry during this practical :)
good luck!!! just breathe you totally know everything!! be confident!
omg wow you rock ant thank you 
for anatomy sonervous 
that's what mine is ily thank you good luck 



6/7 reisaru fics doneeeeee
yeeeeeey \o/
i am so...dying lol one more fic, plus i'll send you the dialogue for your edit before this weekend!
lol i feel you. i also have 6/7 edits/drawings made by now. this has been a wild ride :d
it has!! i'm happy there are no events anytime soon after this lol



your smile is the best even with that missing top lip
fam hahahaha
ya know me 
i love you lmao
love u to 



that record starting to grow on you yet?
yeaa it did, the beat so smooth. i feel like i could listen to the instrumental all night while smoking
we gon go on an l ride with that on repeat
most definitely
long live



stress on top of stress with this job. hoping to gosh i get it
what is this job #3?
at carmax. interview is thursday and i'm nervous as hell lol
just relax dude. if you get it then congrats. but if you don't, don't trip. everything happens for a reason.
so either way it will work out. don't over think it.



i kinda feel like playing bo3 but it gets boring playing solo
i'll play with you!
psn??
dang! xbox 1 
what's ur gt



i have to be ready to walk out the door in 5 minutes and i'm not even dressed. all because one one my eyelashes won't cooperate.
pesky eyelash! did you get it back in line?
yes! lol. it took me until i got to work, but it was worth it
phew, hehe. and you weren't late, right?
nope. right on time 



i'm in the best shape of my life right now and it's such a shame bc no one sees me naked ever :(((
i wanna see you naked baby 
you know you can hmu anytime pap ;)))
i miss you mucho!!! 
you don't even know honey  i need to see you soon!



so what is future for having hella kids by different women? lmao he aint a dude? but ciara is? ok
who said he wasn't?
hella men on the tl
lol well, it would be weird for a man to call another man a dude, but by definition, he is.
right lol gotta call it like it is haha



per local news again this morning, we apparently have to worry about all teens in the city. "teens" attacked a bus now. #smh
i honestly don't understand the fixation on race.
who mentioned race?
i was not careful enough to avoid it. my bad ; ).
the news seems to be the folks with the fixation - too afraid to mention it when it is relevant to the story and public safety.



i really miss you more, wanna hang out
i literally cannot leave my house until thursday because school is life
next week, we're hanging
you know i don't like to do anything.....
sucks bc we're going on an adventure



there are so many games coming out in the next three weeks and i'm annoyed. i have to plan which games i'm going to buy when. 
cod first of all
call of duty isn't even close to the top this year. 
fug you
why you still up?



oh and getter opened with thizz dance so that was cool
dang.. 
it was dope dude
i'm glad he dropped it though. man dude i wish sis could come around already so we can  screw crap up together 
yes pleasee!!!



seeing your mom cry motivates you like no other 
been thru it and i agree 100%
that's why stopping is not an option
of course bro! i'll never stop
likewise



hey melissa, who don't you actually tweet rather than retweet crap?
guat
ju her mii
idgi
i don't  screwing know anymore to be completely honest



why tf you up? you don't have work in the morning, lazy butt bum?
mind your business
you don't count, you're a creative mastermind
you're sweet
you are tho



instead of watching the spanish film i was buttigned to, i watched the help instead 
spanish &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; todas otras cosas
ugh i know  i was gonna watch the movie "todos se van" have you heard of it?
nope! netflix??
so you're sisters can come to pittsburgh but you can't?!? lame



comedians aren't politicians. they exist to hold a mirror up to society. #lookatyourselves
we are monsters and cringe, then run away screaming.
plato's cave theory strikes again.
i know not plato's theories. i prefer to discover humans one at a time.
humans are overrated.



i think your a idiot but that's okay cause i'm having fun
mmmmmm 



i didn't know it was the weekend already 






lo ' shy got that fiya &amp; dese dudes love me like satin yeaaa

 i loved lil wayne chill
man i'm edsu  it's satan. wow i knew you then... why didn't i tell you any better? 
lmfao chill mannnn dang



best feeling is being left on read and he texts you when he's off work
lol i can't tell if you're being sarcastic or not
oh i'm actually happy haha like i thought he was like byyyyeee but i forgot he has a job
okay just remember you are more beautiful than cinderella. you have a face like sunshine and you smell like pine needles.
miss you mips






i just got out here big homie
wyo
i'm in the islands 
dang i got pack sam can't smoke 




both had to overcome a lot of adversity and personal challenges just to keep this music grind alive, but they've come so far. . .
respect bro
watchin this crap is exciting lol
like you said it's just the beginning i got moves in the cut



go tf to sleep 
i'll sleep when i'm dead. 

i'm just saying young buck. lol  , but i just got off work lol
i know that's why you so excited twww look way you feba lls



ended the week with 63 hours 

always 
maybe try switching it up once in a while 
i will for my birthday 



open eyes. stretch. brush teeth. drink water. open laptop.wait, it's only 4:45a?!one o' dese days, brain, pow! right in the kisser!
niiiiiiikkkkkkkkkkkk
omg what are you doing up?
having a pity party for one 
:bearhug:



make me some food pls ....
girl it's 2 am and i'm trying to sleep 
but you're on twitter 
i know can't sleep duhh
well since you're up ....



tonight! and we managed to escape the darkness with 3 minutes to spare! 
i was there too! didn't escape though
yeah the rooms are tough! which one did you do?
psycho, i was in the westboro location you?
the darkness at queen st. would really recommend it if you're looking to go again!



happy birthday! hope all is well.
thank you! so good to hear from you! hope all is well with you too! :)
i've been all right. (can complain, do complain, shouldn't complain, you know.) have you had fun times on your bday?
i'll be celebrating later, but fun will be had eventually. :)
good! enjoy!



before, drake was cotton soft, now he's a bully bc he responded to bars that mention his name.
he's still cotton soft. he just got flow. idk how we let a toronto kid act so thug and get away with it 
 he's just giving out bars to the people who asked for them
he can do that without pretending he got heat and crap lol. sit down jimmy! 
i do the same thing, let chubbs have his hands dirty lol you see dreamchasers didn't do anything



i'm writing a book
about?
my life
i will definitely buy a copy if it comes with a free bookmark molded after your penis
good idea i'll incorporate it



don't fall asleep and forget to pick me up
why ask me to get you if someone else is....
i didn't ask ypu
yes u did but ok lol.
you probly offered and i said i'll let you know but ok lol



i wish everytime i opened the door to get out of my car, 11 beautiful white doves would come flying out in slow motion
and six days from tokyo drift plays in the back.
thats one of the best soundtracks ive ever heard, that would be perfect.
dang right... tokyo drift has the best opening in film history
lol fr, ive watched it at least half a dozen times for no reason.



my job hired this 30 year old lady and i thought she was aight but she swears she's got a gaydar
this girl customer walked in n my coworker goes "yup that girl likes girls"
i was like "how u kno" n she was like "i jus kno what ppl like" then i asked "what do i like" n she said "no comment don't wanna b rude"
she sounds gross lmao wtf, why do people think that's an appropriate work conversational topic?
its weird but to be fair i'm the supervisor n break every written rule there openly at the same time so i can't drag them



y'all weak butt niggas swear basketball gunna get you thru life but y'all can barely hoop

i'm so  screwing serious lmaooooo niggas out here really thinking they going d1 .. i can't 
 i can't with you rn morgan , you got me weak i already got a headache
i'm just speaking the truth on the tl  that's allllllllll



gift card upon completion of their survey! #legit 
how much?
25 dollas!
nice, was it one of the random popups in the app to get to it?
no this one came through email. i didn't get one on my other accounts so must be random selection?



stranger things on netflix had the lamest ending ever 
ayy you finally watched it omg
dude there was so much hype about it and the ending killed it, i expected way more
well there filming season2 already so it might answer the confusing questions at the end
hopefully!!



what happened to screen doors? i miss screen doors. a nice way to kind of have your door open for neighbors.
they are still big here!  a lot of old houses have nice wooden ones, which make a nice sound when they close!
i love those old wooden ones! here in ontario they're getting rare.
there's a place up the coast, near where we like to get away for the weekend, that makes them. quite expensive, but super nice!
you're in maine? it's very similar to my home province nova scotia. really love maine.



you can get away with whatever you want in life. you just have to be beautiful.
consensus is women disappear to society around forty and i only got 14 years to go
yeah it's terrifying. i feel like if i don't have a family i'll probably kill myself before 50.
i can't wait to rock my 40s though, single or not. i want to be that 40 year old with too much confidence and too high of heels
wait no, in my 50s that's when you can start being really gross and you can just blame it on being old. i like that.



why kawhi do iggy like dat???
remember when iggy and lee were all stars? lol
lmaooo kawhi wasnt even in the league then
ppl forget how good those dudes were man lol
crazy that was almost 10 years ago lol



lol can my call come plz 
are you going on a mission?!?
dude yah my papers are in 
yayayayay that's so exciting!
thanks dood 



i miss my family 
i miss u
you really don't :(
don't you ever 
still real life hurt by you



i haven't been to dave and busters yet  i need to go asap
let's go!!
you comin???
no doubt she's coming
i'll text u guys tomorrow bc we're making this happen



husband goes to the #worldseries tomorrow... #gotribe! #indiansvscubs #indians
lol, it sounds like he's on the team!
if he was on the team, why would he just be showing up to game number two?!
maybe cuz he sucks and they didn't need him for game 1 
rude.



it's fun to watch the bloggers race.
danggit, i missed a race? to where are they racing?
potato sack race down msusa!
aaaaaaah. i still havent been on frozen \_()_/
you'd totally fail as a blogger! get a fp for 7:55 on 11/18 and you can ride it with me!



what a wonderful endorsement from #nixon of watergate and misuse of doj reputation and his rather silly grandson
#watergate is nothing compared to #hillary &amp; the #clintonfoundation.
in what universe?



false witness is meaningless-get out of alternative universe



i want hot chocolate &amp; my bf
i can get you got chocolate but not your bf
why can't u get me my bf
idk where he is
ur right there



perez is having himself a day! #worldseries #clevelandalltheway
you just gotta go for cleveland 
i've been saying wdudever won the redsox indians game was going to win the world series
series***
i'm gonna call game 1 luck



confused, thought i get 2 free checked bags with explorer club card
the mileageplus explorer card allows for your first checked bag to fly free. ^ty
but i now have the club card...
we can check it out. please dm us your confirmation number. ^ty
will do



b, why are you on twitter! you should be studying! this is why i'm a good friend
i legit dont know how i always end up on twitter!!
sameee!
what time are we studying tom?
don't know yet i text you



'lose' a 127lb, 57 in long bright red crate?  it was shipped with 2 other identical crates that arrived.  fix this folks.
i am sorry this package has not been delivered. please e-mail our team the tracking info at help.com. ^tv
ya lost the package.
please provide the incident number when you e-mailed us so we can make sure we received the e-mail. ^tv
are killin' me.  #custserv lessons are needed.



yikes i completely forgot i have an economics test today...
looks like i ain't coming
haha 
if i come and he makes me take it i might cry
girl y wouldn't he make u



ua'21 or uab'21 
troyu21
you better be going dude.
i swear i'm going then we can transfer out together after the 1st or 2nd year
okay text me.






thank you my guy!!! let me hold sum! 
i'm tryna get some like you 
staying cheap on em like uncle craig 
yeah dat way 



love my job
it doesn't love you
yeah i'm working on halloween lol
same
you're gonna have loads of fun lol



im getting major problems with the wallet in macos sierra, any ideas?
send me screenshot for the error
its not a specific error it just very quickly stops responding
send ne screen shot about the error to fix it
theres nothing to see, just a frozen window



hope they did't  screw up minjun's hair this time
haha...!!!! it sounds pretty good tho.... hehee..!!!!
i hope!wanted to see his hair up again cuz it's the best hairstyle on him sobs
hehe..!!! i'm still waiting for galaxy's dvd... and they have the dome conc now, we'll be broke..!! 
forever broke ahhhhhhhh tt



looking for a water resistant #case not made by lifeproof. any recommendations? #smartphone #gs7
i'm sending back the pixel. i prefer the gs7 over it. i prefer plain android but gs7 looks and feels better
i really love my gs7! except for the glbutt back, as we've already discussed. :/ what was bad about pixel?
the screen doesn't look that good. at some point the edges look a bit blurry like the optics of glbutt are off.
bummer! sounds like the usual quality issues that nexus was known for. 









mmm...didn't get that detail, but i met up with rick steves like he was my best friend.



trying to figure out where rick steves came from. the cust service ladies were super nice, though...



i'm really trying my hardest not to eat rn but i'm starving
 screwit eat up
 screw it might as well
what you gone eat
ramen noodles lol



not that people are actually coming for ciara for having a baby by her dang husband!! oooh i strongly dislike allllll of you.
who did they want her to have it by? 
these mfs still waiting on her to go back to future like she don't have a whole husband... 
but if she were to go back they were talk about her for doing russell like that...
exactly! like just love to criticize women as if future doesn't have 5 more women out there with his children. like bye man.



westbrook somewhere chuckling with a notepad in hand.
warriors gone win by 40 when they play okc



promise you it wont be a close game






i loveeeeeeeeeeee this  screw
this seems sooooo up your alley!
right? omg soooooo jam
i love it lmao i'm so lkajfkjafk gosh. i /love/ it
it was junho's song right?wowow



i think i will hide my stuff somewhere when i will leave the house in case the robber sneak in again...
ommg?? what happened??
we didn't heard anyone entering in the appartment ?????
what the hell?!? id be so dang scared thoughwere the doors locked?
no because we was there so we thought i'd be fine but  screw we will lock it all the time now.... it's scary indeed o.o



my uber driver is listening to old school r&amp;b and getting real into it and singing the highest pitch female parts under his breath.
my uber driver about to kill me tbh
oh no why/how 
worst driver ever
jump out the door. tuck and roll. don't die



where are your photos darling?
they're all in my profile. same place they've always been
it's my phone...but i found them.
lol, i was hoping my account wasn't glitched or what not
all your great pics are there.



i will not just sit there and let my sisters fight !! idc idc i am going to jump in if you them you going to have to be touched by me
 even if she winning?
even if she winning
you tripping.
my mama told don't let nobody hit your sisters,brothers , cousins allat so



let's take a vote! should chuck rub josh's back?
other way around
but josh is the one who has a problem!
now all three of us have problems #rubchucksback
stop that hashtag now



my  sore as  screw , worst pain ever
that's what you get
lol that's so not nice taj
yo boobies
they hurt so bad i wanna cry



back to the gym...day 1 begins now.
awesome! did you kill it on your first day back?
like a boss!
sweet. we knew it! so know that you're back on the grind, are you going to the gym every day??
not every day but as much as possible. looking into 530am sessions.



would much rather have two more stud d in this lineup #trouba #lindholm with the young fs than #kadri and #jvr those d will mature at 26.
jets want a stud d in return. reilly only one that fits their wants.
really? they should rethink that. #little is miscast with too many minutes. kads would alleviate the minutes.
problem is kadri is overpaid. no way anyone takes that contract.
what? he has a great contract! he is a 2- c unlike #little who is a 3+ with much more grit and more offence.



ridin round my city, got a blondie sittin shotty and she lookin pretty
false
how do you know?
cause you're eating chips in bed, also your name is cam
first off it was popcorn(you tried it) second off that was an hour ago and third off my name is cameron



just got the xbox one - let's see how long i keep the tv integration thing in play. i'm thinking not long.
what took you so long
it seemed like the tv feature was the big deal and it didn't appeal to me
i don't use that just games
doesn't matter though - now i got both of em :)



that first loss a fluke
kd fluke
how?
cause he a dude butt nigga. blow a 3-1 lead to them niggas. then join they team. he had a squad. should a went to the finals.
he also abandoned his man's. and he be acting all soft and emotional.



excuse me while i try to figure out how to make the coffee before ive had the coffee.
you need some sort of pre-coffee coffee.
cocaine, right? youre talking about cocaine?
if that's what the kids are calling it these days.
goshdang kids these days with their pre-coffee and their sms.



"mostly all marines are  screw boys" --a us marine 
they say that about all of em 
smh 
it's okay just sneak the gps into their phone lmao
lmao if only



update: my lyft driver has madea's voice as his gps and my ankle is sprained from the show
amazing
this is what dreams are made of 
honestly i want that voice as my gps
too much sbutt lmao idk if i can handle it



so, we will probably see miguel montero vs. trevor bauer tonight. that might be somewhat entertaining. like bauer needs the added motivation
really? i'm surprised it's not willson contreras starting at catcher for them
montero usually catches arrieta. we'll see. they may opt for contreras given time of year, but montero normally does.
contreras scares me hahaha
yeah hes pretty darn good. i told a cubs fan last night that he scared me more at the plate than baez



i'm up at 3am practicing my costume makeup.  wide awake and crap
and never texted me and crap
dammit jordyn you didn't respond so i totally forgot #yourfault
don't yell
i didn't yell..



can't wait for the party &amp; jeremih show
i tried buyin tix for me n the homie but they sold out im mad now the prices are inflated as a mug :(
the prices they're going for now are how much the meet &amp; greets were 
im dumb for procrastinating like i knew my dumb butt wanted to go i shouldve bought them as soon as it was announced
me too, i gave in to resell prices though /:



wooohoooo!!
i totally forgot!  what time does it start again?
it starts at 8! 
hopefully i can find a babysitter! i'll let you kno.
oooookayyyy.



so sleepy.
be safe
always
what time u be in miami?
im not coming until thursday night



goliath is a good show. my wife and i have enjoyed it so far. #goliath #amazon
how far in are you?
watched 6 episodes. some parts are weird but overall like it. nice combo of this plus bosch.
im starting episode 6 now. im totally lost on the relationship between the young lawyer and the old guy.
us too. its weird.



these commentators are wild, this dude said the spurs ain't that good
not this yr b
wym
idk im just talking g  i ain't even watch the game
lol spurs beat them boys up



gym time
yea right i'm going to bed nigga
pinchi vato lonjudo
no hay pedo compa, es el pisto
your compa alex with the hot cheeto fries tho



woke up and found out we were able to get tickets to chelsea tottenham next month!i've never been happier
nshalla betkoun overweight 3al tiyara you dummy
bjeblak matchday programme and will try to get it signed 
no homo
you know it's as homo as it can get



i really want more zabivaka porn. like a lot more!
guess what my plan is for tonight :p
are you streaming? :&gt;
around 10 hours from now, if i'm not too exhausted later
i think i'll be asleep then :c



us photographers are always last. it's like you want it when!!!???
i am just hiding here for speak out my real thought...
it's cool. harder for me to hide though.
coz followers are around in your real life?
no the are not. no effn way will i meet someone from here. most are woman that scare me. so no. just no.



happy birthday scotty b i might be crazy, but i actually miss you have a great day b, you deserve it!
i miss you too dom
i'll be at state on saturday, so maybe i'll see ya
yes! text me when you get here
will do



guys what should i be for halloween??????? need real tips
troll doll, johnny bravo, shaggy from scooby doo, lunch lady, sexy kitty, girl who shakes the fish in finding memo, drake
twinkie, gatsby, mermaid man or barnacle boy, avocado, ron swanson, ron burgundy, blades of glory guys, mr. incredible, pug
austin powers, nick miller, schmidt, chris kyle, justin bieber, gynecologist,  poop emoji, stitch, harambe and i'm out
tysm i'll try to pick one



things i want to study: cultural anthropology, world mythology, religion, east asian history, astrophysics again, evolutionary biology,
poetry, non european literature, philosophy, queer history, women's history, fashion, shamanism, sculpture, particle physics, sequential art
the ideal: writing for a living but then taking like 4 clbuttes per year for the rest of my life.
get a job at usc (that involves writing???) and you get a certain number of clbutt credits for free!
bruhh i bet a lot of colleges do that omg good idea






big difference between discerning a ball/strike in baseball and fumble/catch in football.
theres more to look at in football. in baseball, a computer as you see on tv, can do it instantly.
ball/strike is a black and white call. two states. fumbles and catches are not.
black and white calls should be decided by technology. especially when a baseball is moving 80-105 mph.



theoretically, lets say you have a companion, should it be controlled by the leader or act depending on the situation in the fight?
is this for bs? how's the combat work right now? i think that would be an important influence on the direction you take.
personally i don't find ai companions very fun or game-changing, they're often just... there.
it'd be cool to implement a coop mode w this feature though. not sure how accessible that'd be on the roblox platform tho.
if it's turned-based definitely buttume control. making it ai just creates a variable out of your control.



holy  screw i hate cpanel.
that's a bummer. we're not for everyone, though, i understand. is there anything i can do to help?
nope. my provider includes it by default, and it is not the easiest to clean out. all good now. i think. less you, more them.
totally understandable. if i can help you minimize the impact at all, or answer any other questions, definitely let me know!
thanks, and thanks for reaching out!



poor tj mcconnell smfh
bayless don't start point?
he hurt
have a priest pray over tj before warmups
it's gonna be ugly.



it's so funny how people that live in denton think that the asheboro mall is fancy 
people from denton are hillbillies so
explains why i'm always there 
the only good thing about denton is the japanese food lol
bruh i didn't even know they had japanese food



6 am workouts and i'm somehow still awake rn. kill me.
this motivates me to workout today even tho i feel sick and have a headache 
just doooo it 
btw did you just change your avi again? 
it's my trademark i haven't done it in a while lol



you know when you eat "healthy then you have random urges for rice &amp; stew -- my africans know what i'm talking about 
rice and stew is healthy bro lolol
aha says who?!
we live on rice and stew and we all skinny lmao
lol some people for sure



a true steeler fan demands more than a list of empty apologies and promises. #steelers #banbigbum
boi u ain't no steelers fan smh
you ain't no english speaker, boi
boi u stupid, making all kinds of stupid comments. just stop
yo boi, my tweets be fire af, boi.



does rose water help improve skin?
yesssss, helped my skin so much, reduced size of my pores, nose area is way less shiny, even some acne scars faded
right.. cause i use witch hazel now. are they like the same thing?
yeah but witch hazel dried my skin out a lot but i guess it's just whatever works for you, everyone's different (:
aight bet bet bet bet bet bet! imma get some today &amp; see what it's shakin with



my birthday november 11... make a note of that crap.
i'll think about it
bring lotus 
bye keith
lol i neeeeed it



i know 2016 has been rough, but if this is the year joe arpaio finally goes down, it might have been worth it.
were sure trying out here.
good luck. we're all counting on you. 
gotta say, its disheartening. ive spent years doing voter reg, financially supporting opponents, &amp; writing, but arpaio keeps winning.
that said, your talk at altconf this year did a lot to reinvigorate me. thank you for that.



pls explain
were you already at the stop when the bus arrived or approaching vehicle when it was at the stop? ^hk
i was waiting at the stop and two 196 buses pulled up, we tried to go to the empty one but he looked at us and closed the door
not sure why the operator was not able to wait and accomodate you. were you able to get on the other bus? ^hk
no i ended up having to wait for another bus to come



some of the conversations ash and i have actually sound like we date or something idk
so ur cheating on me
oops
that's fine, nexttt
stfu and love me



i don't think it's coincidence that pretty and petty are spelled so similar 
oh my gawwdddd 
well am i wrong??!? lol
spot on babe 
forreal.



you never ask me
you're always there anyways
yea well an invite would be nice ya know
next time you'll get a personal one
cool ttyl 




what did she make you get 
she didn't technically make me, but she is a very good at convincing
oh i see lmao &amp; i see why you got that 
you know me 



im siced asf i got a 100 on that us/va test  im tufffff
ur not
who r u again ??? 
bet
lmaooo, just kidding 



i washed my bangs so does that count for washing my hair? i think it does 
i do that because i don't want to was the whole head, but those bangs gotta be styled dry shampoo the rest!
it was pony tail day but i loooovvee dry shampoos!
growing out a pixie cut, so i am ready to rip my hair out. over it. hate it. 
been there! i know the feeling oh so well



biggest pet peeve is when i tell a customer "have a good day" and then they don't say anything back
same. and when my staff leaves me hanging and don't show up for their shifts  i miss you! i wish we could've talked longer!
omg i know i can't believe that, i would have been there if i wasn't working! &amp; i miss you i wish we could have also!!
that would have been so nice to work with you again!! let's hang out soon! 
i know we'll plan something soon!



how do i have 11 absences in english already 
15*
still got a a tho 
c*
 ms white is a saint



if you text back in 0.5 seconds hmu
you got a iphone?
yes ma'am
i ask cause i wanna play pool
say less 



it's a bad day to be paul... 
what's going on
she's gonna officially break it off today.. poor paul.. it's not his fault he was born boring...
rip pauddy
the last thing i said to her when i dropped her off at school was "be nice to him" 



watching this tnt nba deal about race, such weak sauce, so out of touch of the legit issues of the movement, why bother then
like...what...is...the...point if you're giving one sided opinions?
can at least one of them talk about their experience about how they were fd with because of their race, they have stories
especially jim brown. they're not offering anything outside of typical victim/community blaming. this is solving nothing.
barkley is so out of touch, he is an uncle tom



i see you all the time 
lol you do . why youn speak 
you be looking unbothered &amp; it'd be awkward just walking up being like oh ik you lol
kml only because ion like people staring at me  but you could've came up to me . i'm nice 
eventually maybe lol



i've been in college like 1/8th of the year and i already have 20 nau shirts
it doesn't stop the older you get either
i love it
the shirts and the free food make it all worth it 
you're right!! that's where all the money went that i paid!



he did not raise those kids, their mothers and nannies did. he left his family for another woman when ivanka was seven.  #debate
you know so much ..... i am so impressed,,, should write a book
have
okay, i just think you might be buttuming a bit about nanny.   mothers,agree..but he kids have his business mind,,, he taught them
you may be right. by their own admission, if they wanted to see dad it had to be in his office.



filipinos and their trash decisions
just like ur trash plays, scrub
fck you bruh. 70% league 20% ow 10% starcraft 2.. yes i will be mlg
most legit gamer
if mag succeed streaming plan ko. feature taka haha



tengo uno polmico: ximena clark #iguols
como el horno no estaba para bollos el otro da, nunca le pregunt al robok si considera que liz hurley es demasiado joven an.
el sr r me endilga (?) a m un gusto nefando por las menopusicas, de modo que seguro la encuentra bieja a hurley
oh, perdn. los confund.
conoce a charlotte rampling, laider?



wish i liked concerts i would go see kanye
what dont u like abt kanye?
lol thats what i meant to ask.....
just too many people too much going on. i only would/have gone thru that for someone i absolutely love.... aka rihanna 
lol omg. i love concerts, everything abt them. kanye concerts are great tho, so visual w ittt



oh this was a three parter huh? i totally forgot that! goodnite all and thanks 4 being here. sleep well and take care. llap.  #allstartrek
you have a good night too. hoping for good sleep for you tonight! 
thanks kat and patrick. u guys both sleep well yourself. appreciate all the love and hugs &amp; knowing u care. c'ya tomorrow.

thanks hon. i mean it.  many hugs back!



flintsones to snow halation
shrieking raptor melody
im crying ava its so good
i hate it so much but i love it at the same time
right???



maybe cause i was sleepy and dosed off but last night's #atlantafx was blaaah
never watched that either. remind me next wk when it comes on.
gurrrrrl  imma need you to get with it
lol
sooo we getting that business proposal together?



got that cashin remix coming 
writing the verse as we speak
my dawg!!!  i need to send that to snook to short that hook and see how much more i gotta write
i think it's only like 4 more bars
oh crap that ain't crap to come up with lol



your tweets about texas are making me want to come home 
... oh yeah, that's right ... i'm still in sd . i'll be home in fall of next year!!
you're supposed to visit me here in texas, but wya
i know, i know, lo siento!!!  i was going during christmas but, my grandparents decided to come out to cali for christmas 
omg whyyyyy. tell them no



im not good enough to play at and d1 or d2 schools that would be a dream
i'm sorry what was that? 
wow, i don't even remember tweeting that 
 gotta love timehop it's awesome to see that though because now look har far you've come man
dang that's awesome



/ break is front page stuff!
what story ?
has dem-organized violence @ trump rallies, mbutt voter fraud, campaign law breaches.
story were you indicating






hey, you're the worst journalist ever. never do an interview again.
you don't understand crap is my problem, my next video will address that...
triggered, much? i don't want to watch any more of your crap videos. i have no respect for cucky retards like you.
do the world a favor and don't. your respect would mean crap to me anyway don't mention it like i care, thanks :)
the world? dude you suck so bad at insults/comebacks. i shouldn't have expected anything more from a retard.



when he leaves you on delivered..
no one wants you idiot
go suck a dick somewhere else
i will 
i know



i want to get the 7 but i'm so skeptical but i need a new iphone 
which one you got now?
the 5s cause i couldn't upgrade for the longest time cause at&amp;t is an butthole 
they let me upgrade no problem &amp; that's the only reason i upgraded was because i had a 5s
lol, well you're probably a better customer then i am...lol i feel kinda forced to upgrade but i don't see the need



cubs just took the hard l
with 3 more in your future
put $5 on it
make it $10
say less



craving wings
have you tried wings n go?
dude yessss
recommend?
hell yeah lol super affordable also



so happy i get to go back to  vit nam sooner than i thought 
take meee
throw $5000
it's 5 racks to get out there 
plane ticket can be over $1000 but inflation is high $50= 1mil in their money but prices are different like 20,000 for soup



now i know why i was crapting all day. that dang chia seed lemonade that japanese restaurant gave me lol

lmao yeah they gave us these drinks in a tiny shot sized cup and all today i've been using the bathroom lol
they gave you a cleanser.
lmfao whatever it is i kinda like it 



wtf who put all this rain outside. put that back.
you can give it to me if you dont like it
it's ugly drippy rain in 8c,though ...not nice rain
thats okay i dont discriminate
i will tell it to head overseas for you



my mom talking to mitch: "i think the last two times i've been out of state you've gone to the emergency room so let's not this time okay?"
my mom can agree that that just happens when you have boys
haha you're living proof 
exactly! but i'm still alive
too bad /:






thanks.. i love that analogy!
trish u gonna be at inbound016?
yes... speaking at 1pm on 11/9. come to my session!
you bet i will!



masters of the machines tonight! #boston #hiphop #rap #beats #instrumentals #showcase #battle #show #nightlife
yo i put you on the list homie.
my dude!!! good looking out brosef!!!  kill that crap tonight!!! i'll def be there tonight! what times the show 2nite?
doors at 9 pm i believe.
wordliiife!! let's get it!!



replaying all the bioshock games i have come to realize infinite wasnt that great. :/
we didn't talk about this? i fell for the hype, but infinite is ridiculously overrated.
the burial at sea episodes are a lot better. not just because it was rapture, the gameplay was just heavily improved.
gear system is a  screwing joke. how do you go from bs1/2 system to a 5 item gear system. the actual  screw.
ywah man, infinite is bullcrap. i don't know what the devs were thinking, it's so watered down compared to 1



you mean the camera at the george washington bridge is face northern manhattan-not the bronx.
yes correct, i was thinking it leads to the cross bronx expwy so my wires got crossed there.
oh, i see.
thanks for listening and paying attention  :)
you're kindly welcome. i watch good day new york almost every morning.



#gh jane elliot looking flawless as ever!!!!!
that's why she's the queen of port charles.
yes ma'am she is!!! plus the wardrobe department is finally dressing her right. no more fashions by dorothy zbornak.
when she returned to gh in 2003, she told soap opera digest that she hadn't gone clothes shopping in 10 years. lol
she even had deidre hall doing her hair. #thestruggleisreal



help seriously
'smatter hon?
pain. sdudes. life.
wish there was something i could do
what i need is someone to help me go sdude shopping. i'm literally wearing 2 right sdudes



to all cubs fans, if you win the series, congrats it's been 108 years
i'll shoot your dog.
i'll kill your cat and take a video of it 
don't be from marshall.
i do what i want.



i've got major issues sleeping. melatonin doesn't move the needle. i can read halfway through a polymer eng. textbook without sleeping
sorry man. that sucks.
i don't know if there's a relationship between insomnia symptoms and uc.
i dont know either. id be surprised if there were not, because it seems logical, but i dont know.
one thing that's unusual is that me and another family member both got it at times of great sedentary-ness. i got it when



i was just told that i care too much about my friends. how the  screw does that work??
you don't even hang out with me anymore so i disagree with that statement
tyler said that to me but okay
stop talking to him
i would if he'd leave me tf alone



lmfaoooo these niggas would b up rn &amp; call me to smoke up
pipe. 
wym? lol
hahaha it's cus my homie kept bringing up oil burners earlier . that dang tweaker. lol shwb show on halloween. let's get it?
might go idk yet lol



when i see you x fantasia is a top 5 r&amp;b song. debate your auntie
i disagree with that...but the remix with remy was my crap
exit
lmaoo. i'd love to see the rest of your top 5.
lmao it's dismal i don't even like r&amp;b



lol aye yo this video i just saw...... teanna trump outta jail yet bruh???
she gonna get out and her new thing gonna be eating pussy i'd almost bet on it lmfao
nigga i  screwing hope not lol lesbian porn is boring as crap
i don't even watch that crap unless a strap on involved and even that crap boring
lmfao you feel me bruh!!! i need some penetration going on or else that crap is boring



i wanna get a nice hotel or penthouse or somethinggggg for rocky point but it's hard to find pppl who will pay their part, and ahead of time
when are you goingggg 
spring break again 
i'm like totally inviting myself rn hahah but i'd be so down 
dude no idc lol you should come you're definitely more than welcome to when i do!! we should plan



for face timing me for a minute to say happy birthday during a set thats how you know its real

did you guys have a great night ?
yes we did, getter was frickin dope 
i'm so happy you guys had a great night aye during our short face time i got apple b's lit i was like ayyyyeee lol



michelle is constantly yelling at me to put the top lid of the toilet seat down and i always shrug it off...
i hate the thought of my pets drinking from the toiletcause that's what they do if we don't put the lid down. buttlickers.
i only buttumed dogs did this... so gross. lol
drink toilet water or lick their own butt?
lol. toilet water.



i'm busting in brooklyn!
tell em mariann!   i've had enough of this fat butt.   howard is too nice to him cut all ties immediately.  #vortex
im holding but no pick up .. too aggravating
howard will pick up hang tight!   #caw #caw #caw
no he's had enough got to change my topic



girl i miss your irky butt
miss you more i'm coming over this weekend so be prepared 
lol aight see you lil bih 
girl what atlanta nigga done taught u the word "bih" unfinished butt word
lmao i cannot w/ you, ain't nobody teach me that .



is it ok to say no kids allowed at a wedding?
is it a small child or a big child
any child.
what if the child has that benjamin button?
you're overthinking this ces :p



it's always something
hey zaddy 
hey sexy 
go to sleep. or you'll have bags. and be ugly.
too late



so hungry
you're a cocksucker for dubbing my facetime at 3:40 am bro like cmon you're not busy
im on my computer bro my phone is dead
this  screwing guy go to a gas station and buy a charger
i'm tired of this  screwing guy retweeting me every time i say this  screwing guy



getting feeling back in ur nipples after a boob job is the one of the most uncomfortable sensations ever
you had one?
yea
i gotta find your before pic lol
look hard enough u might find one lol



so i came to a haunted house thinking that ucla students would be the actors...
they were the actors
lmao so the guy lied to me ???
prob
i lost trust in ucla



got off on all all nine charges. panicking can now cease.
charges? the hell?!?
i'm a felon
how?
long story. i'll tell ya about it when i get a phone repair hopefully today



i miss kevon 
huhhhh, 
i kinda sorta do 
whyyyyyy 
sn that's my son 



should i go see chance the rapper or kanye 
you need to come see me idiot
chance is this saturday 
chance tbh
i've been thinking about it but i think he might be doing a lot of his new gay crap



america has all sorts of problems, but the american view of religious freedom is far superior to the lacit of europe.
how so?
for one, in america, symbols of religion, like the hijab, are accepted, which helps people of different faiths buttimilate.
okay. what else?
america also allows people to freely profess religion in public spaces. this can go too far, but so can enforced secularism.



please by all means come home and complain about your day to me &amp; then proceed to tell me birthdays don't matter when you're older 
omg wtf espi
my day just went to crap
why is she like this...
idk man



tiara said she's gonna fight you lol
 why what i do? lol
lmao she said you left her.
lol nooooo  wait i had to my rate was horrible smh
 aw man.



wing stop starts selling brownies next week 
you gonna add an extra kick to em  if you know what i mean lol
trust me i already had plans when i saw them
better hook me up lol
ok i got you 



people really take the time out their lives to block folks from social media when they mad..
what's wrong with blocking ppl?
i don't want to make this a debate it's just my opinion
i wasn't trying to "debate" i just wanted to know your reasoning
it's just childish to me... to run to a social site and block someone. you put to much time into that.



nothing to like here 
awww poor baby

it's too early to be hurting yourself
i did it yesterday thought it was just a tweak... but i woke up this morning to find out otherwise



i haven't sang in front of a crowd since middle school and i'm so nervous for tomorrow omg
you'll do great!
aww thanks kent!! 
you did so well tonight!!
thank you!! 



i'm taking my vicks and put it around my mask. the smell is gonna be amazing!
hey! i think we're going to kanye the same day 
omg, i don't even know what day i'm even going anymore. my friend is playing with my feelings. lol
nooooooo  we're going november 1st!
i'm gonna see if i can get my pit ticket for nov 1st. i need to go with you guys!



i have all as and a single b in aice biology i want o u t
i have all cs
hey what matters is you're not failing
it's only the beginning of the year you wait
i believe in u sis



nothing screams "insecurity" like posting a snapchat story on your girlfriends account threatening other men.
that nobody wants.
you saw it too? lol
lol yeah cause i was gonna respond directly to it with "bruh nobody wants either of ya'll, that's why you're together. "
i wanna know if he thought the face he made was intimidating or something



pointless tattoos are literally the worst lol
the shading wack, the outline wack, the way it looks wack.
won't @ em tho
lmao don't have to
who hurt you?



kung fu panda series &amp; chill
majesticcasual and chill?
trianglemusic and chill
bird chirps and chill?
chair squeaks and chill



why am i wide awake
we all in this together
are u quoting high school musical ..
if i knew more i would continue quoting it
this is why ur my fav



i was guna sleep but i remembered we have vanilla wafers
we dont have any
i just stood in front of the pantry for 2 mins with my hand on my forehead because we don't have any
i know this feel all too well i am sorry for your hurt
thank u friend



so eager to get this party started i can't sleep #bbcon #bbcon2016
hey, patti. i have no idea what advancement services are, but i'd love to find out. i'm new to the nonprofit sector and, 1/
booth if you'd like to stop by. 2/2
i'll definitely stop by!
please do. we're booth 200.



up late thinking about the fact that glenn is actually dead
whats glenn favorite restaurant?
ihu lmaooo
lol poyeyes
so much disrespect to my mans dang i miss him



being attached ain no joke 
hey wyd
omw home wyd
y u leaving
im not feeling well



ideal date, go to sprouts and shop for health
i'm taking you to friday's half price apps...
i like that you said you were going to sleep yet you're on twitter 

ideal date look at open houses in the phx area for inspiration



    --   












whattttttt 
she had a wet rag and threw it at me so i wiped it on my butt threw it back and she wiped her face with it
oh my gosh..... 
best part about it is i didn't tell her until after she wiped her face with it 



find me a tusculum nigga bye
lmbo i gotcha say less.
u playing
lol i'm searching early this morning in clbutt right now .
when u find one let me know make sure they got transportation to et 



i really just want to see the northern lights



yes
girl..past your bedtime what doin?
i woke up to go pee



i think feign death is bugged in pvp, in battlegrounds at least it never takes me out of combat (no pets/no enemies near)
also shadowmeld doesn't work for getting out of combat :(
alsooo why can't we use engineering belt and cape in bgs still ???
or regular food for that matter :p  need mage food xd
also can't use drums of fury but normal bloodlust works ;_;



can i just say how much i love emma...my baby
i dunno if this is me emma but i love youuu
yesss you're the only emma i talk to 
omg love you 
love you too my little baby. 



jay is jobless and on that stuff? is that what i'm reading?
ummmmm you here in the states????? 
yes ma'am. daddy in the hospital
oh no im sorry to hear that :(
thanks nori 



i'm so bored
let's go skydiving
i'm down
next month?
just give me da date i'm downnnnn whenever



anyone else getting the 404 error trying to get the #urbandecay #fullspectrum palette   what's going on?
i sat refreshing the page for like 5 minutes, and when it finally came up, it was out of stock
whatt??? for me it's just been showing 404! ugh i've been waiting months it can be out of stock in 5 minutes!! 
ikr! i'm so upset. my local sephora said they get it nov 2. i'm bout to be camping out before they open 
honestly!! like saved my bday money for this palette i've been waited sense they teased it. gotta call my sephora! 






nothing worse than a bitter old lady, dear 
who's bitter and old? i'm actually extremely grateful love. 
okay i was harsh, sorry. but it was kinda shady
it's ok honey speak your mind.






which one are you up to?
season 3 episode 3
incredible episode
on board next lol



in need of a new church
antioch (:
only if i get to sit by you lil shawty
ew don't call me that 
had to think of something you disliked 



i was finishing up this buttignment till i checked my twitter notifications 

twitter is such a big distraction yo 
exactly my spanish teacher keep telling me put my phone away 
put it away and learn some spanish 



i'm coming back to louisiana tomorrow but watch how fast i jet out 
what time u leaving
my flight for 2:45
what side of town u on rn
decatur, dekalb county



if i do my laundry naked, i can actually get all of my laundry done #showerthoughts ...may have actually done this once or twice #tmituesday
kigus work!
i has not one :o
aw! i made my own. :f but they're pretty cheap, roo!
... :o neato  i suppose that would make it better. x3



grows by the day
same girl i just love her
the new originals season came on to netflix and it reminded me of how much i love her 
and once you catch up the new season starts in january or february on cw!!!!
oh i already finished it  i can't wait!



oui.!
wat happen to the warriors
game 1 outta 82 we gone be straight.!
they shouldn't lose a game
81-1 then we will take it my boy just want a ring..



uber from ny to philly.
megabus? that's gonna be od expensive
i already took it lol.
oh lmao i was about to say
lol it was high, but the bus wasn't leaving in time.



i can't wait for the netflix marvel characters to finally join forces and beat the crap out of daredevil.
eh, i guess i'd rather they were just as annoyed with daredevil as i am.
haven't seen the new season. what's gone bad?
i liked the first season. 2nd season doesn't live up to the nuance of the other marvel shows.
how do you feel about luke cage so far? the marvel show for me know where i didn't get the hype was jessica jones.



the strangers just csme on tv. i'm  screwed. not sleeping..bye.
that movie is the creepiest movie i've ever seen
hold me. i'm scared lol
lmaoooo i was scared when i was at that creepy motel 
i was dead butt about to call the police hahahha



#deaffriendly
no need to be nervous, chris! where are you headed today? ^ln
thanks! dallas then pdudenix.
you're wingin' it to the other side of the country! dm your rapid rewards number, we'd luv to send you a treat. ^ln
holla! thank you! we're on the plane, thanks to very patient gate agents.



sarina always complaining how she want someone but she lowkey a dude 
i just need somebody to loveeeeeee. and then i won't be a dude,  screw u
stop being weird big bro
sorry ):
nah just continue to be weird, hate when you're quiet



i  screwing love pirates of the caribbean idk if i'm more in love with jack or will
you saw the trailer for the new one?
wtf no i didn't
whaaaaaaat you schleep
ima look it up rn wtf i didn't know



my mom accidentally let her cat out tonight and if he doesn't come home by the morning, she's going to be a mess 
he's not use the scent, i would go look for him miki
we did for like 30 minutes with the treat bag and he didn't come

she'll be devastated. she loves that cat so much 



wyd
idiot i'm in bed tf
umm you could've politely said, "laying down" idiot butt dude

 screwing idiot lmaoo



the movie 28 weeks later scares the  screw out of me. i hate fast zombies!
yo 28 days takes the cake though. they were more of an enigma in that movie and you never knew where they were coming from.
dude 28 days and 28 weeks later are the two zombie movies that scare the  screw out of me and give me nightmares.
hold up bro hold up. you  seen dawn of the dead the remake?
honestly no why it's bad ?



/sings promise korean version/
saaaame the jpn version  screws me up. like. klajflkajfk
lmfaoooooooo i did the same for go crazy xd they sing jp one i sing kr one hhahahahaha
took a while but like, hands up in jpn grew on me but lmao those two
i usually sing along in korean for the songs with both jp/kr version lmao



game day #thunderup
carson i've never seen a sports fan go through the identity crisis you have gone through for two years.
#vfl#titanup#thunderup #gobraves
you went through #gopackgo #keeppounding #dubnation but i feel like you are finally home where you belong
it took a lot of thinking lol



wow i went to work from 8-5 got home and did he until 7 then went to study until 9 then worked out until 10:30 and i'm barely going to bathe
and shower then i need to practice for my speech tomorrow :))))
hw*
very proud
thanks ally 



how do you volunteer for the foundation if you live in canada? is it possible? i really wish i could help somehow.
thanks for the support margaret, why don't you hold an event or fundraiser - that way you can support our work from afar! x
that is a great idea! thanks for the reply. i will do my best to come up with something. talk to you again. xox
wonderful! thank you margaret, feel free to email us at fundraising.org for ideas or support x
do you have scentsy products in england perhaps london? it is where you warm up scented wax - so natural and safe to breathe



what's good my g
crap just coolin.. waddup my guy?
just cooling bro working how you looking on the courts
vintage lt.. in my 
 you got my # still hit me up boy we got to link.



any idiot before me any idiot after me 

no but fr tho.
better do it girl 
i does this. if you didn't know now . . you will 



let me guess indians fans. this series is over? you of the 3rd lowest fan attendance in the league in 2016? #cubs
attendance means what?
means their fans didn't support them at the park during the season? great team, but that is what that means.
whatever makes you feel better, maybe the cards will fare better next season.
we have 11 championships. st louis isn't a wait till next year town.



only night we aren't free is saturday, but it's looking like that game may not be the huge deal it had the potential to be 



?
#worldseries
we are in! come on over!



only been up an hour and already having the worst  screwing day.. and i have no coffee, pray for us all
listen though. today may have started out awful but now you're seasoned &amp; prepared so make the rest of it wonderful
you mean just crying about it won't make it any better...
who said that? crying and complaining make everything better because sometimes you've just got to get it out or you'll be bitter
here's hoping that and coffee helps



if you're only supposed to be a nut and i've made that clear don't causally text me on "wyd?" dry butt convo type crap.
lmao yo i had a discussion with a group of ppl about this same crap and they didn't agree with this.
really hate it, when i didn't exchange numbers to be friends lol.
exaaactly! you have one job and that's to get this nut. regular convo outside of that is unnecessary unless it's established
yes, now when i text you just for the address and days later you're hitting me up for casual talk 



when your dabbin in your car &amp; your neighbor comes up to you to let you hit his g-pen lmao i'm zooted
but was it jeff?
nah it was my neighbor on the other side of my house lol
man this would've been top 5 coolest things ever if jeff was hitting g pens
you're right 



i be at work high dennaho  screwing up shi
lmfao u hell. b dropping shii i kno
hell yea. it make time go by fast but what you got going this weekend
none i got a lame life. what's the play? link
i'll b in commerce



applied at the ram and desert sun  i need another job now
desert suns whack. join the ttan squad
where do they have one??
16 locations man
ok cool i'll apply



i'm at such a good place in my relationship rn &amp; it's making me so happy 
i'm jealous
it's not always like this, but dang when it is trust me when i say not all guys are the same. be patient my queet
i'm dead!!!! 
delete me off twitter bye



re: that trump cocktail menu... the trumps (&amp; those that aspire to be) seem to do a lot of "trying to act like they think rich people would"
like, hmmm... a drink with oysters and caviar in it? that sounds fancy... clearly a rich person would drink this!
oh, i can put gold lame curtains up over a gilded window frame? this is surely what a wealthy person would do because they're wealthy.
it's all pretend and artifice... like a kid trying on his father's sportcoat and sdudes.
more like putting lipstick on a pig.



your wcw be on the tl deleting her tweets for no reason
you look like a teddy bear. that's not a bad thing btw.
lmaoo thanks ??
no problem. u ever seen that white bear on the bimbo bread?
what the hell



3rd house my parents have tried to buy.. please let this one be home 
omg buy our home!
you're selling your house?
yea 
ahh where are you moving? and dude i wish we could have bought your house it's nice ahah but they already want this one 



i'm determined to finish this book today! if only i could stop reading twitter... 
lol, did you finish?
nope. i got distracted with pretty boys &amp; dreams of edging. 
awwww! good luck today then!
thanks! almost done. lol



tbh the song back where i come from gives me the chills every dang time
that right there is america
i mean kenny was bad as  screw back in the day. who gets into water fully clothed ya know
alan jackson did also !
this is very true



update i've found my keys :-)
can u bring me a water bottle and drop it by my clbutt
i saw dis while i'm walking inside smh
such a sad day
i have one in my car too



when i lived there briefly i got fired cause my boss was racist &amp; after i went two more latina girls got fired for no reason
ur from rva? i'm from nova no way. and yeah that's crazy i lived in south beach for a year and definitely experienced a lot of
i'm from rva yes but i just moved back from miami i was there for 2 years but i'm moving to la in springtime!
ayyyy! that's cool! hmu when u get down here!
absolutely! 



damian lilard goin for mvp and album of the year.
that weezy verse go harder than a mf
my cousin put me on 
if dude had time to focus on rap all the way he'd be nice with it
hell yeah cause he be sayin real crap. he just gotta work on the flow a lil bit.



bikes for more than 24 hours...






need stations near lattc to avoid delays at grand/washington switch, ride straight to little tokyo or union station.
oh man i have wished for that literally every time i've been stuck sitting on the train at that platform






i do 
me and the homie going to stream today are you down will you be available?
about what time?
1pm pst



i really enjoy food these days.is that a middle-age thing?
i think it's a human thing 
i'm...i'm human!!??
i often forget i'm not a disembodied spirit. the hunger eventually reminds me.
that hunger! gets ya every time!






yes? lol
that's how you moving?
my retweets?
yeaa



andrew miller still good
hope his arm falls off
you take that back
never. i'm not looking forward to him being in our division for two more years
well i hadn't thought of that



is iw gonna be cross platform?
no just the same like xbox and ps4 no pc
fuuck
guess it's a good thing i got an xbox 1
you serious??



you know ya girl is set in her ways so who want to get on a group deal with me?  &amp; get a hotels for a 3 night stay and snowboard all day!
down 
alright i got you.. i'll keep you in the loop! 
i'm serious! 
i better get that deposit when i ask for it lol. also i'll send you the season pbuttes that are on sale now you better get them!



why is it suddenly so hard to be awake at this time :/
youve been doing it for years
thank you gabby, which is why i said suddenly. idiot. foh
it's not suddenly when you complain about it all the time
no gabby it is sudden. go away



rdr got a slow start?
kinda yea. you good but then fall off hard and gotta climb your way back into relevancy and good shape.
i was gonna fire it up. cant decide on what to play
halo
we dont play that in this house lol



gonna be live at the kanye concert
your going?
yes sir
ayye... you saw the warriors get waxed 
naw at work going to catch the highlights tho soon



what's your confidence level in qb wilton speight after 7 games?
voted something still to prove because of options. basically just want to see him perform in a big game like this week
if he's 8-0 come saturday afternoon, you all in?
yup, no doubt. and i believe he will be too. just need to see a little more. i think he will be better than he was vs wisky
what i mean by that is, he was good vs wisconsin, enough to win, i think he will have a huge day saturday



but lemme gts since everybody else did lol
i'm up lol
i see 
 wyd
 trying to get warm



is hot.
so random but thank you 
haha sorry.
don't be sorry  it's cool 
well alrighty then. 



everyone just wants to party in this town. i need to get tf out of here...
never thought i'd hear you say that since i feel you party all the time 
i do more than just party i actually live here...i have family here...i work a normal job here...it's not all partying
of course i know that! i just didn't think you were trying to chill
and why is that? because i only post about me going out? because i don't post about me working 50+ hours a week or at my nephews



spurs 
kd still getting that ring
you thought
thunder 
who said im an okc fan?



. 
so tell them to stop carrying one crappy made in china knock off line (ivanka) so we can all happily shop there
also, why punish all the other labels and businesses? if you don't like a product, don't buy it.
if they feel the impact they will drop her one crappy knockoff line and we can all be happy
seriously, just don't buy it. are you a #fashion designer or something?



good morning i'm thinking deeply about the film the wrestler. may be time for a rewatch.
its cranking its way up to being the best arnofsky film, which is odd
the only things he's done since then are black swan and noah, which i've never seen because i typically don't do bible films
youre not missing much with noah, honestly. black swan was fine.
i saw black swan. it retreaded a lot of the themes of wrestler, but felt like aronofsky wanted to be more "aronofsky" with it



kinda just wanna chill w my yfl brothas n sistas bc y'all fam af love u all. if ur from yfl or kfl or sfl or cbfl....i luv u!!! s/o to u
do i count 
o ya huh. sometimes i forget that's how we know e/o. i miss u too tho even tho we live together lmao 
i miss you so much  it's weird hahahah. we'll "reunite" really soon i hope.
 ily c u soon i hope love ya



do you have a manager for your music
we need one...have one in mind...our friends and business man ray..ideas?
no, that's explains things no cds, no shows, no itunes to buy your songs. no music videos.
a show? lol..we are 2 guys....he and i would habve to play drums bbutt...rythm and lead guitar as well as keyboard +sing
are you feeling alright brother



i don't want to be waiting months for it
haha didn't expect that ending said "here, this will help you remember" and cut jamie lannister'a hand off lol
not until june bro  and cut it smooth off!
khalessi just got an army and her dragon burned the bald dude! i'm in love bro! 
i didn't see this my bad bro but, yes i told you that you would dig the show dawg..



this nigga chad is gay i swear
it was the hack black butt 
who would do that...
lmao look at my snap. one of em really did that 
naw none of them did that



i left if any one of those teachers told me not to i was leaving regardless
i wouldve too. isnt this twice in a week now of evacuations?
who are you lady
whoa sorry there champ my kid goes there so i was looking for updates didnt know it was a problem 2 reply 2 u relax
oh i apologize not sure what's happening there right now



why single mothers always mad at everyone except the person that made them a single mom?
log off now
i'm bored at work
aren't you unemployed ?
exactly why i'm bored



chainsmokers closer #pensdj
that song is so overplayed. i'm over it.
don't let me down is overplayed - closer isn't played enough!
don't let me down is somewhat overplayed. nowhere near closer though!
you're overplayed!



so we're getting a couch next week . apartmentwarming soon come  #wewantgifts #yesliquorcounts
aww congrats..i didn't know you found a place. &amp; we? who your roommate 
oh yeah thanks boo ! qiyanah is my roommate 
yaaas okay okay! that's what's up, well i'll be at the warming once y'all get right!
ybuttssss . i'll keep you posted on deets



im shuffling through my ygo decks and why is my dragon deck so useless? i need to rebuild it. my blackwing deck is still gucci tho
i havent played in so long tho im super rusty w my cards and their effects.
lets gooooo
but remind me to bring my deck home
tell me when u go home



no puedo arrancarte de mi alma y de mi mente . . .
i've been told i have that effect on ppl  sorry
lol bishhhh ily  better see you monday 
ily2  i have to see what time i work, but i'll my best. either way we have to hang out &amp; catch up!
hope you can make it if not yes we needa plan at least a lunch date havent seen u in decades lol. 



women with big hair have a place in my heart and a place in my bed.
3a.m confession
nah, they knew this, i had to reiterate lol
alright i got you. i will let every big hair women today at school know there's a place in your bed for them
you real, give them my @ name lmao



there's this weird kid on ig who doesn't follow me but he'll go like &amp; unlike the same pic of me every single day. it's been 2weeks now tfff
can i just know why?  had to hit that block
mental challenges
i cannot deal i swear
private is way much better tho



yo why tf is there a semi stopped on the one way downtown unloading and crap during morning traffic?! wtf?
my fav time to call the ppl
what ppl?
wdudever tows and tickets ppl
ain't have time doe. i was already running late. i was pissed



ross cheated on rachel idc fight me!!
actually they were on a break
omg! don't do this!! so it makes it okay for him to cheat? if rachel would have done it every man would think otherwise 
buttt if she had never said she needed "a break from us" he never would have done any of that stuff!
point is he cheated and he knows he  screwed up big time that's why the ended up breaking up 



man, yuri on ice's ending song is so inspiring as well. even if i knew nothing about the anime, the opening and ending songs are so
symbolic and self-inspiring. it's a good message to anyone trying to go after their dreams.
not to mention, yuri isn't a prodigy. he's some normal awkward young twenty something that's coming into his own. i love that.
like i can see so much of myself in him. lacking the confidence, being anxious, believing in somebody so much. it's perfect.
i agree.



. what b the move
crap wbuttup me &amp; cory linking up friday
aw yeah? 
naturally link up if you off
on me i'm in pa for the week



soooo i got invited to compete in usc's hackathon this year and i'm super excited!!!!
what is that i am kinda curious what is now since i have seen your tweet
its just developers joining in teams to make apps for it systems and compete against other teams
ohh that's pretty kool now that i know what is but goodluck to you kill it out there
thank you!!



are looking for 1 for vegas. hit up nic or jazz they are in charge
i might come to vegas just to first round you old man 
that's just mean its ok tho i can get to the bar faster that way
haha, i'm jk nothin but love 
i know much love always



yooooo
my guy! give me some good news
back on the music grind. let's get it
hit my line
i just hit it.



bright and early 
why is that?
always up this early
really,early bird are ya?
can't wait to get the day started or just a habit?



up bored af
put down
aint you at school ?
when money involve
school first






i'm just super emotionally stunted not heartless
you're eating a single serving pre-packaged slice of pumpkin pie alone.
first of all  screw you second of all this is america i do what i want
ok enjoy your pie knowing that was made for broken families and orphans



the bridge by my apartment has a lane closed for construction so there's a big bottleneck of traffic there
so at least a few times a week i'm stopped at that bridge for minutes on end, just left to contemplate the fact i could just get out &amp; jump
it's not a fun time
also since this is indiana that bridge is going to be under construction for at least a few months moreyaaaaay
the main highway in/out of jersey city/holland tunnel has been under construction going on 3 years with no end in sight~



she built like a bag of onions and she got a boosie. please stop arguing with her on the tl. it's too early.
smh why are you this way lmao
halp me
lmao you're gonna make me tear up 
 i luh you. i need you



missed my 5am alarm &amp; woke up at 8:27 then got caught at 3 trains but i'm not even mad 
correction, 4 trains
dang!  where are you trying to go? lmao
just trying to get my brother to school 
good lord lol



 trying to hold out until 2.
you got it
 i'm trying, this bed comfortable too
you trying not to fall asleep and i'm trying to fall asleep 
 i just dozed off, i'm about to gone go..



i don't know i've never considered #predator a horror moviei see the case for it, but always considered it action first
it's a fancy slasher flick.
how did i go to bed before you
nanomachines.
that would explain a lot



i worked 10 hrs on my first day 
where you work out now
fremont ford boo!
idiot ! i need a ford escape lmfao 
is the pay good ?



donnie darko was released 15 years ago today, and it's still one of the best cult clbuttics.
the room is better
kys
yoouur tearing me apaaaaat lisa
i deed nat heet her, i deed nat



my chem professor is the biggest goober out there
all gen chem professors are compared to natali
i miss natali more and more everyday
that never goes away
i expected that to be true



had to add my crush on snap 
holla ya ha  lol it's time she stop being that
lol you cupid now fam 
lol yea my new job
lol shiddd how much you get paid ? y'all hiring 



niggas just failed a 520 point buttignment 
*project
smh lol
not i wtf
that's good to hear



he's so amazing
he's ight
*amazing
lol
you right



i'm staying single till college lol
yikessss thank gosh i don't have to deal with that cause i'd  go off
. like jesus can there be one nigga in virginia beach she ain't fw .
nah everyone knows her lmao
honestly 



do i call you? or do we resolve this quickly with 200 messages?
why can't i retweet this? 
try it again!
done. btw the answer is always 200 messages 
smh gosh do i miss the 90's. lol



woke up like 
go back 

don't look like that
 where tf you been light skin



*gets into an uber in costume*uber driver: " sorry i don't think i have any disney music"
i h8 uber drivers who are like this or ask weird about disneyland like stfu and drive me please
" it was a joke...i was just trying to break the ice" i literally do not want to talk i just want to go home
omg like when my uber asks me rly uncomfortable things about my job or complains about prices like.... shut the  screw up
look man im paying rn for you to drive me. im not going to complain about uber to u if i meet u at my work place so stop



hi we are going to disney world k love you 
still loves you 
you said christmas time !
but what days 
when are you off so we can have a lunch date 



well i got a $40 tip and then a $.30 tip just shows the high and low point of my day
man i got a .10 tip on sunday smh
rather just get 0! it's more embarrbutting to give a few cents
exactly it's crazy! work this morning?
yeah helping out mowing with our buddy!



2nd ever college all nighter is finna go down
update: this crap is butt
i'm closing in.
ill be cutting it close
starting the last one right now.



j'ai envie de domino's
make that call. pineapples tho
no chicken and feta on mine and pineapples on yours, we good?
as long as i can steal a slice because that sounds good
it's delicious, you should try it next time



"these chicks don't even know the name to my band"
i think everyone's all jealous and crap because i'm like the lead singer of the band dude
bro you the realist!!!!
bro slim was my favorite rapper growing up
yes!! that's all i listened too.



nba season starts tonight... give me your finals prediction. we will revisit in months.
no predictions until nfl is over
how about a 2nd round of prediction once nfl is over. gives you a "change your mind".
fine. cavs over spurs
spurs and cavs both looked pretty good last night.



don't think i'll ever get over 700 followers permanently. always lose one as soon as i do.
to be fair, 700 people is about 699 more than should actually be following me.
look on the bright side. when i was your age i had, like, 0 followers.
i don't think you had readily available internet either?
nope. no email either. cell phones were still a bit of a rarity.



to be here asap
uno more montho! 
hurryyyyy
i'm trying  don't pressure me
i know you are.



#hereiamwithher wondering how screwed up you have to be to vote for her just because she has a vagina.
it's more like because hillary has a brain in her head, unlike her opponent who needs to be, off to see the wizard..
according to wikileaks she's not to bright and that's coming from the ppl who work for her.
have you actually even gone to wikileaks or do you just read the edited and highlighted stuff they pbutt around twitter?
i've read them yes and that's lame to try to say it's edited. yesterday i read one where they needed to sober her up, lol



wish i had someone to carve a pumpkin with
ok nvm we won't do it.
you're going to one act play nerd
it gets me out of school. there's more days in the week but i see how u feel now
whatever



i'm scared to pick up my rabbit. someone help 
you didn't give it a bath did you? lol
lol i wanted to clean his feet ):
rip
 i googled it.



why is it so weird to listen to music that isnt rap or pop or edm
progresses a lot different and i noticed today listening to some jazz that that kind of music is able to change emotion and
them live and when a rapper cant even preform his music right live its like cmon mannn
best crap when they rap over their own words being played back
craps stoopid



this ticket is $69 but i've never taken the airline before so i'm not tryna die and stuff
to go home???
yeah
you lucky wtf
it's one way the round trip is like $400



i hate the person you wanna block but can't 
block em, unblock them then text em like "i miss u" then they really think you're crazy lmao
he mad i won't come back 
lol that's how it is
i'm like dang too bad i was alone i would've had a field day with that 



why can't i sleep
because youre wishing i was in town. its ok i feel the same haha
duh. get down here
i know!! if i can ever get a vacation im there in a heartbeat!
take one!



so sick of working nights, but trying to save as much as i can so i can get outta this crap town...






it's only 1 bruh
oh tru here it's 3



maybe i just feel hella tall cuz everybody in the bay are midgets 
nah not at all
for the most part
lol yea i see what you talking bout tho. i stand out everywhere lol
same especially on bart 



my ya lovelies...let's talk povs! do you prefer:
double pov is my one true love. i like both.
i love dual pov too! i should have made that an option!:)
that is my secret vote lol
i love it *sneaks in vote* :)



all i want to do is dance
waiting patiently for the next clbutt with ms. shannon.
it's coming i promise! we are finding space
bless up
you also could do the talent show for homecoming (;



so is wikileaks credible? can anyone say for sure? it seems like no one knows and what u believe is based on ur party
i don't think there is any evidence that they have doctored materials.
so wikileaks is sort of like snowden? if what they are saying is credible, honest liberal media should cover that too... yeah?
ny times with a huge cover story on new wikileaks today. not sure why you think the liberal media isn't covering?
ok today exactly they did, before this or no?



with all the chaos surrounding trump's loutishness and racism, the gop's actual policy platform seems to have been set aside this election.
but lest we forget, the gop's policy platform is still absolutely terrible. exhibit a: the #russellamendment.
several months ago, the house gop added this amendment, a "religious liberty" clause, into their version of the national defense bill.
the amendment's author, rep. steve russell, and its supporters, bill it as preventing military chaplains from violating their conscience.
i guess that war doesn't violate their consciences; not the religious figures i know.



my baby cousin is 15 and be netflix and chilling and babygirl over here can't even get a text back!
ramis putting in work 
ramis needs to show me what he is doing
it's those single cab trucks 
 not at all



since jade is coffeebabe98 am i bbypeachtea95
i like
since we both babes we should just be #bbybabe lmao
nevermind i clicked it and i'm horrified at what i see
omg so many jejemons



i feel like nobody has posted in the clo/08 group sense i made that post 
lmao you're they haven't 
lol that was #sodondre
u probably just said everything that ppl were already thinking. if they do meet up it's gonna be a big phony butt gathering
exactly



eat or sleep somebody help
always eat then sleep
great minds think alike
miss you bro i'll see you soon
for sure!! we gotta turn up again soon!



it's so much i wish i could do to help change the usa, but i don't want a job in politics.
accept the call
i can't do politics...  i just can't.
lol i would lay an excerpt on you but its too late for all that
tell me in the am then. it's always good to hear people's opinion.



fourth, qpf amount. think 1-2" covers it. could see a few higher amounts midcoast w/secondary low. slightly lower amts possible n mountains.
that should put a nail in the drought for many locations. precip still below normal but not drought level i'd think.
sadly not. we'd need the next 2-3 months to replenish all the water. 3yr deficits 12"+. a step in the right direction though!
3 year deficit? not in my part of maine. i'm not aware of any part of maine in a 3 year drought. it's well less than a year here
in the last three years here in the foothills where i'm at, qpf has averaged much above average. very wet till last winter.



would tweet more, at least half of what i natter on about regarding politics or pop culture comes because she challenges me
what have i done now?
nothing. you are generally wonderful and i wish you tweeted more. the world needs more kiki !
just haven't felt i had anything worthwhile to contribute lately. sorry.
piffle, i spend half my time tweeting things you made me think about.



dad: do you think i'm an butthole? me: wtf??? where did that question even come from? no. lol #mydadisweird #justdadthings  #sorandom
he probably asked u cuase someone must have told him he was acting like 1. so now he's like hmm . thats what i do sometimes
i think it's cuz i'm always yelling at him it's cuz he always thinks i'm lying to him. he hates when i go out. and i go out a lot
well thats what happens when ur a single gal. wat does he expect for u to stay trapped in the house
haha i guess. like i went to a concert last night, and he didn't believe me cuz it was on a monday hahaha  i had to show proof



agents of shield is possibly one of the worst marvel tv shows i've ever seen honestly the plot is boring and messy
not to mention overly heteronormative !!!
i never started watching it. now i'm glad.
its a waste of time! there are far better shows out there to watch
tbh, before it even started airing, the trailers i saw for it just never caught my interest.



came home to green posole thanks to mom 
dang i bet your mom gets down 
yes she's a great cook thanks to gosh lol 
next time she makes some invite me over for dinner lol
okay des, will do 



gone get that fixed n tell some others.
my crap ain't gonna be fixed by then! when is it anyway?
thurs
working late and bike still down
injustice.



morning! good ol' body clock still being a idiot. auntie's 'gently' snoring so the phaser is set to church mouse. luckily she's nearly deaf.
morning...
greetings from (what i expect will be) sunny philadelphia 
hope it is wonderful.
i'm sure it will be. 5c and nippy though 



fun fact: apparently alka seltzer night can trigger the symptoms of a panic attack, which are similar to the symptoms of a heart attack
-so you might end up calling 911 and having 7 police, firemen, and emts in your living room at 2:30am!
wooooooooow
uh huh 
i took some last night. never again



i just woke up from a nap a little bit ago and panicked bc idk why i woke up thinking i was late for work 
that's me when i sleep in on my day off

it's horrible i like get up so quick hahaha it's a trip
yeah seriously  it is!! hahaha



imagine potentially next season:qb: wentzrb: chubb/smallwoodwr1: jeffreyslot: matthewswr3: green-beckhamte: ertz/celek
ol of johnson, barbre, drafted c, brooks, big v
u forgot about huff
kick returner
and wr



perpetually more of frontend community happenings seems deliberately engineered to intimidate the outsider, and push out the non-obsessive
the real face of progress in frontend dev would be that everyones job would get easier, less cognitive load
the exact opposite is happening. all your frameworks are abject disasters. your cute names for permutations of shims or whatever are insane
not really sure how to end this, but knock that crap off. this would be a great year for everyone to come to their dang senses
chris i think your time machine dropped you off in the wrong year



6 am. trucks not gonna work on itself
if your going to dumont i want a ride in it
glamis is where it's at!
dang lol
haha yeah, that's where everyone goes.



i love you too

what ?
who you love?
my friend



if u come across someone u know well enough on tinder is it alright to platonically swipe right
yes
ok good bc i overthink tinder 2 much
back when i used to have it, i'd find people i knew and send them gifs of dogs
now this is what tinder should really b used for



this is the type of person david is:
me, as i walk around the apartment: "i think my back is broken!"david: "adi, no, you can't be serious...if your back was actually broken
u wouldnt be able to walk. u would be screaming. you do know that, right? i just need you to understand that ur back isn't actually broken."
i honestly don't think he understands that people sometimes say stuff that's not meant to be taken literally...he just doesn't get it
shallow thinking or autism



parents who smoke marijuana, what age(s) do your kids have to be for you to 1, accept their marijuana use, and 2, smoke it with them?
not a parent, but i'm happy i didn't till college
i was seeing phish before i smoked, think that had more impact than peer pressure ever did in middle school.
same only allman bros and ratdog
i saw rat dog once.



the suggestions people give for deadpool 2... and even from filmmakers... i'm starting to think everyone is doing a bit.
neveldine/taylor? too on the nose?
that actually would make sense, if they still were a team.
crap, i didnt know they split. bummer.
that one still makes more sense than anything i've heard.



we were literally seconds from leaving the house when it was revealed that jake was wearing two pairs of undies, which caused a delay.
he couldn't just wear both pair?
it wasn't comfortable- " i just feel too puffy."
well you wouldn't want to be too puffy at school.
the last thing i need is call from school that he peed his pants because he couldn't get his jeans off



how r u gonna rt my tweet but not follow me  our friendship is over
lol i thought i was following you already
nah
stop
u know i'm just kiddddddin 



wore sweats to the gas station and as i was entering my pin code at the cash register idk if she was tryna see the print or guess my pin.
gray sweats?
yea
lol no dang wonder
i guess lol



i woke up 3x in the night to get more blankets. starting to think the best place for my bed is not underneath my poorly insulated window.
heat blanket!
they're dangerous 
kristina has one! they auto shut off after 4 hours
i had an old one &amp; pbutted out with it on &amp; it burned my sheets &amp; my ankle i had to have grafting &amp; still don't have feeling there.



lost 3 out of the 5 dogs i'm dog sitting &amp; i've literally been out on a mission searching for them &amp; i finally got them all

it's funny now but i was about to cry my butt off earlier 
lol u missed ur dogs??
they aren't my dogs.. it's a couple that's on their honeymoon lol



winter will be here soon is your car ready for winter? tsaunders.ca i will help you get it done,rust proof/winter tires etc
tracy, i'm looking for some deals on winter tires on rims and installation for my 2015 chevy traverse.
i can certainly help can you send me an email with your vin and i will take care of you x
sure thing. thanks :)
my pleasure have a great day



someone came to my apartment and tried to roast me for having a dual vcr/dvd player . haters .
where you buy that mf though
lmao i've had it for years
dang that crap part of the family at this point lmao
right ! lol never letting gon



i must be getting old if i start getting upset about seeing someone in the "15 items or less line" and they clearly have 16 items.
this is me
these young kids who do they think they are?
dang hooligans
bunch of rapscallions.



my bye week hell is finally upon me...
hopefully youre up on that waiver wire haha
waiting to see what picks go through now
ty montgomery could be a good pickup, and if youre in a ppr league cole beasley is good too
both are already spoken for, but i appreciate the effort haha






no i dont 
boy .....
wym i stop lol
nada. dude if it's like this on halloween i ain't going out



we asked my aunt from switzerland to bring us argeta and she brought us 5 bags of vegeta... #bosnianprobs
bring some to seattle, we'll be hungry after cvija hahahahahahahahahahah i'll bring some kifle 
kifle and vegeta... sounds so appetizing yum can't wait
ybuttsss after party at selmas room wit argeta and kifle!!!
dude she brought vegeta not argeta  i wish i had some argeta



i really want sushi
at 8am? ...odd...
i'm always craving sushi so yes it is a little odd 
i'm always craving a donut...is that the same?
never a bad time for a donut



why did brandon lee and heath ledger have to die....
brandon lee is the saddest death ever tho, fact! literally died to make the movie, way sadder than heath although still tragic
his poor mom ugh
it makes me so upset that they wanna remake it. his performance is a+ and it's just a perfect movie and shouldn't be touched
i know. i refuse to pay any mind to any remakes



listen #leafsnation matthews,nylander,marner,our d etc... are all gonna take time to get better,this is a process,be patient #tmltalk
if we want to support kids we'll go watch junior hockeysame old story... suck it up buttercups and ice a team
if you think that we're somehow just supposed to be a contender because we drafted matthews you're surely mistaken man
i don't think... i absolutely know, without a goalie, the team is nothing. anyone who thinks otherwise isn't up to speed
obviously having a goalie is the biggest need for a team to be successful not sure how u possibly got that i don't get that



wow twitter was getting wild there for a second lol
....yeah
why are you up so late cocaine frowny face ?
lmao erin. i'm a frowny face. made out of cocaine.hahahaha i don't sleep.
oh yeah ... 



honestly probably jinxed myself bc i bought the tickets before getting my schedule for next week and w my luck id get scheduled to work 
but i had to buy them before prices went up:( see my dilemma
what tickets
kanye!
omg noi'll work for you



did you transfer :(
kinda, i took a year off and just started applying for a transfer
 i miss you. okay that was random but i totally understand.
haha i miss you too but yeah au wasnt the right fit
you have to comeback and visit one weekend though  where are you thinking about going if you don't mind me asking.



my physics midterm is tmrw and my prof spent all lecture (review day) on a book problem, then tells us "but i wouldn't put this on the test"
just remember f=ma
lol if only it was that easy 
just wait till you get to dynamics
lol i'm looking forward to it 



off to work..
"welcome to walmart" 
not funny steve!
99% of people only shop it's the 1% who deliver there and know exactly how they treat their venders !! #pisspoor
you nailed it on that one!!



why am i so full of energy right now ?
honestly it's too early
girl i've been up since 0330 and i'm an hour behind 
holyshiiiiii yooo
gotta love the navy lmao 



wow, i'm totally seeing an argument against rental properties using a strawman.
more info, please??
i'll talk to you about it
ok!
i will let you know that the appeal was denied and the zoning administrators decision was upheld. we do expect it to be...



anyways back to crap that matters. i really want toast, but got no toaster.. ya feel?
i have a toaster but no bread. or butter. i am cryin
we must combine resources to achieve a common goal.
sry i am only accepting burritos w extra guac or fried rice at this time
you and your burritos. :v



i'm gonna go home and make cupcakes
we didn't take on walmart at 12am just so i couldn't have a cupcake
come to my house then (:
but i've got school now tooooooooooo
probably not gonna make them until like 3 anyways bc sleep



i miss mommy 
i miss u too honey

dm or text me ur fan mail addy so i can send u and ur roomies a lil sumthn sumthn
no no no not necessary at all



yo do you, sarah and nicole  screw with jger??
pretty sure yeah, want me to buy jager? and u got heem?
yeee let's do that, i already got 2 bottles of heem. just curious if the girls would be down for jger bombs!
yeeee hella down #litboosf
aaaaaaaaaaw yeeaaaaaah. i got the cola just grab some monsters for the jger bombs



jerry seinfeld is coming to seattle and im just now finding out about this???? asdf;hjaf;oiwja
seinfeld song is my ringtone my alarm tone my notif tone can we go see him pls
crap i had that as my ringtone at one point hahaaha i tried to get my dad to go w me but the tix were hella expensive 
aw omg how much
like 145 for balcony :/ sorry jerry i love u and everything but that's 2 much :(



me and kim about to  screw crap up if we work at dos gringos together lol
y'all finna  screw around and get each other fired lmao
hell nah. we bout to make more money together
well time shall tell
money will show you shiiii 



feels good to have my beamer back
but what about your bimmer?
beamer and bimmer mean the same thing
i'm just messing with you frank, lol
dang you got my butt



if i ever tweet about flamehopper's stream after today just remember kenny put me on
yo that's that dude that juggles fruit!
yup that guys the crap!
he is! and he's actually pretty  screwin good at the game too
he really doesnt miss



yo man said pog-central-back? smh
szn 3 mou in full effect
crap is bizarre
just hope we get this w today
crap what time est?



what's the worst part about your period? (dm if you're shy)
the feeling when you stand up after being sat down for a while 
you mean the nervous feeling or cramps?
the nervous feeling that you know it's all gonna come out when you stand up lol sorry for gross details 
no way don't be! i feel the exact same way just wanted to make sure!!! thank you 



im hella disappointed in myself
don't be so hard on yourself
i didn't finish the essay
the one you were talking about all week?
yes exactly smh



as i get drunk off baker's bourbon. no nothing still beats it other than bookers
i was just thinking i should finally tell you the plan! :b wait until you to y slaughter house bourbon tho it's faster stuff
i did. this schedule is bleh
days off in the literal middle of the week seems to friggin weird............
man id so move over there and learn a food truck



who got wheels, im tryna smoke 
buy a leaf and i'll match
you in wheels?
yea
im good for it



thanks for forgetting to put sausage on my sausage egg and cheese mcgriddle.  who would order an egg and cheese mcgriddle...
i order egg and cheese mcgriddles all the time 
is that even on the menu?????
i don't know. maybe i'm just being complicated #nowihaveacomplex
complicated and causing screw ups like this one you psycho



and i dnt ever shoot my shot smh
buster.
buster douglas smh
u too old to be shy trell
kuz when u hit a certain age it goes away? lol that's an interesting train of thought



just watched a dude with phimosis penis cum all over a judy hopps mcdonalds toy
upvote
actually, i did see it on reddit and i did upvote the op, who also was the phimosis man in the video
wow epic
yup yup



but if you asked me to choose gsw over the field for the title i'm not sure i'd do that anymore. definite defensive issues.
after one of playing together? lol
i didn't say they stink...said i'd take the field over them. not unreasonable
no. but to say they have definite defensive issues after 4 quarters might be pushing it.
i think its more roster makeup. only reliable true big might be zaza.



rainy morning here in west michigan today!!
it was supposed to be doing that here i was all ready to go fishing and i walked outside to no clouds and high sky !
get on it.. trust me you won't melt, your not that sweet!!
i love fishing in the rain but today there are no clouds at all as usual the weatherman was wrong again !! 
they are never right, you should know that!!



midterm #7 today

learn how to find the limiting reagent little boy.
easy work.
false



if u have heard a rumor about me pls ask ask me if its true before you start spreading it because odds are its not lmfao
there's a rumor about you sleeping with me is that true
it's true
well gee fuhchen i thought u were gay 
not for you



i literally get so annoyed doing the fafsa because my parent's income literally has nothing to do with me. i get $0 from them.
file as an independent shawty
i didn't know you could even do that???
i mean i would buttume... it's an option when doing your taxes so i would think it was the same
my parents still claim me on their income tax so they can reap the benefits. lol even though i'm 19 and don't even live there



i sat next to a really cute boy and hopefully he gets the hint i wanna marry him.i also hope he doesn't follow me on twitter
update: we matched on tinder but haven't talked yet. he makes me really nervous and sweaty
update: we made serious eye contact today and basically had like eye sex. we're literally gonna date soon #waitonit
today is the day he realizes he is in love with me...just wait on it guys
i h8 you



let's go indians #cityofchampions
you would cheer for a team you have only liked for 2 years over your 82yr grandfather's cubs winning one in his lifetime 
i win either way, plus he has been a reds fan for 40years
diehard cubs fans hate the white sox
i'm not a diehard indians fan



man i always forget what a fun take tucker and dale vs evil is on the hillbilly slasher film.
it is quite a gem
i think that and "behind the mask: the rise of leslie vernon" are the best alternate takes on horror flicks
i have no idea what that other one is but you're giving it a high bar by grouping it with tucker and dale. i should watch it
definitely check it out it's fun.



can i get off work now? i need to go home and prepare.
what does this mean? it's so cryptic.. are you murdering someone or what?
a hot butt tinder date that's what 
ooooh girl get it!
ooooo you know imma get a lot



o yes i forgot to mention that i have pumpkin scented perfume can i finally transform into a pumpkin now
you will transcend beyond your physical body and become one with the pumpkin.
gosh i would love that
ill roll you around work "lets go olivia, time to get back"
it's times like these where i wish i had artistic abilities



f/a
nah imagine

blank tweet
what? lol



and tiff. 
you too
not like i worked there or anything
okay listen i wasn't follwing y'all
we all know i was grounded half the summer too and didn't have any social media or snapchat or even a phone to follow you 



so freakin bored
come to tempe 
be there by sunrise 
i'll have breakfast waiting for you 
how do u say no to that #youdont



game to attend air supply concert in winston salem!
i will punch that card in exchange for the tickets! otherwise #fuhgeddaboudit
which tickets would you want, air supply or the dawgs? i can help you with the latter!
#deal. thanks
my pleasure! but you've gotta holler!!



todava ni presento y ya reprob
esa es la actitud!!!
ya sabes aqu con todooo 
pngase a estudiar mejorrr
no tkhsss



i'm not ready to be 20.
so far it's not that bad i promise!
i feel like i can't handle the pressure of adulting 
you and me both
twinsies. also, i miss seeing ya around on the daily :/



kawhi got 35pts and 5stl against the "best basketball team ever buttembled" but it's cool i'm cool
as much as i hate the spurs i appreciate y'all for last night. but now y'all got kawi in the mvp talks 
kawhi*
he finished second in voting last year dog get with the times
he did i'm trippin



i just opened julios link and my phone called freaking 911 a million times and barely paused long enough for me to turn my phone off
i  screwing did it too
i was so pissed lmao i thought my phone was done forever
they  screwing picked up too, i'm done
really? mine kept saying the line was busy



which is really  screwed and scary
you mean irl or in the show
irl
i think it's weird to use an anime to make your point but i agree with it nevertheless
well, it came out before use of unarmed drones was in such high quantities so it was more like  screw this actually happened



i need calvin and hobbes cartoon books
same omg that just gave me christmas ideas lol
oh crap. christmas is coming i had them when i was little but they were lost
aww man that stinks they're literally the best i can read them all day everyday
same



i can't put the words together to correctly express the feels i'm feeling in this hot tub right now. like, uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...
don't drop the phone. you'll get electrocuted.
only if it's plugged in?
i have no idea. it's water and electricity, i buttume. just be safe.
water resistant. i have meters. but thank you! 



i should be asleep but instead i'm up playing jet set radio future.
bro that's dope as hell!
yeah man this was my favorite game as a kid, i recently found it at goodwill for like two bucks! i had to cop it
that's dope man. i'm bouta go to zia records sometime this week and cop another n64 since i found my cartridges.
that's dope as hell! hopefully you can find one haha



it's only my second day at work and i already got a complaint about my uniform and makeup/hair from my first day. ouch.
"we're part of the high fashion industry and we need our employees to look like it."
ouch :/
they really expect me to come in at 9am in a full face of make up/hair down/dress/heels to mbuttage? n a h
who got the  screwin' time



thankful and blessed to do what i love! #hoops
coach where you been?? ain't seen ya on here in a while!
busy! how are you?
lol. i understand that!! i'm alright. just trudging along. i know you're stoked your season is here!!
i am! next weekend!



i hate when i'm out somewhere and i introduce myself to someone and they're like "yeah dude, we met each other before" smfh i suck hahah
yo this one time i introduced myself to my coworker &amp; she was like "we've met before, i was in your clbutt" i was like ohcrap fr?!
and then she goes "yeah um i sat next to you the entire semester" 
other homie and was like "dude i have no idea who tf that was" hahahahah
how bad did you feel?!  people recognize me all the time and i'm like um who tf are you 



crazy #dreams. in one, there was a storm or flood. we were trapped in a home. three floors. neil armstrong and wife were there. didn't want
was he wearing his moon suit?
how are the free margaritas going?
just beer and wine last night. no signature cocktail
still nice perk at end of day.



who's up

you got a show to out on tomorrow wtf
you better watch
depends how lit



the doc i was referred to is going to give me a full hysterectomy and i might actually cry right here in the parking lot
go suck a dick, pcos. i win
this is awesome news!!!!?
very :)
*hugslot* that makes me so frigging happy for you!



emily takes a dose of dayquil the way i buttume someone does a shot of the most despicable rum ever concocted.
that's because dayquil is nasty
its not that bad.
true story: cough syrup isn't as bad as i remember because now i've had tequila and everything else is better by comparison
this is the whitest thing youve ever said



once you visit home for a few days you realize how much college *isn't* home. it's really hard not to feel isolated
don't worry, it will become your second home-which is almost equally as homey as home 
idk. it's more the people. my family is so close to me, they care about me so much, its a huge absence when i'm in sm

i have plenty of friends and relationships here, but it's not the same as family who are 100% always there



code gebutt but fight club
im in
welcome
i never finished cg it was such a trainwreck but it was good
it was so good



any updates from doc?
i'm avoiding them. am so ill most days don't have energy to learn the truth. scared &amp; in denial.
ah maryl! dang. get ur sorry butt back 2 the docs now. yeah always scary
you are the greatest friend, through thick &amp; thin. i'm giving myself time to accept what i might hear.
love u &amp; want u 2 go get it over with today. u raise my blood pressure.



"best of" party tonight? i'll be at the top of the stairs, greeting arrivals. make sure you say hi! #roc
did kate stathis win best circulation manager??
she has that title for life.
:-) tell her rachacha says "hi!"
will do.



yea i'm definitely coming home and falling asleep
vball party 
that's tomorrow i think?
u said wednesday
dang i meant thursday sorry



on dundas starting at 5  #yourewelcome
what
im working reach
dope i'm literally going to see you at 5 idiot 
be prepared for the huge wait !!!



have so many priceless memory's abs now he acts as if we've never met . . . . . .
woah, woah, woah lmaoo my nigga don't even. you fell off the planet !
bro remember that time at that  party i had i had white girls running around the house naked lmao
i peep you on my ig tl doing big things tho. eveyrthubg been going kosher ?
you know bro just laying low stacking cake.  just got back in philly where the  screw you been brozayyy lol



when you throwing another party 
probably this weekend
dang lmao throw one when i come back 
when's that? lol
november 28th - december 1st



don't got no regrets pulling that crash dummy stunt at work to watch the spurs game. i ain't mad at ya.
nah i  screwed big time otc
ima be on probation for awhile 
jose was all looking 4you in the drain, under pallets, in the fajita pit, in the lady's restroom, by the frog legs everywhere
crap i bet



that heart dropping moment you read about a murder on the same black as your parents live. then find out it was right next door.
i think you meant block.
when my phone is racist. 
all jokes aside, is your family okay?
yeah they are. you just never think about that stuff hitting home. i'm trying to get my fam out of topeka.



 i shoulda went to gsu man.
nah

they lit. but vsu be lit asf !
i just want the dining hall food



talk to me about your fav films.
: blade runner (1982) made me fall in love with filmmaking, and got me interested in genres, special effects and set design.
adding it to my watchlist. i'm sure i watched it as a tot but i don't remember.
: watch the final/directors cut version.
noted!



good morning
good morning sir...time to tie this crap up tonight
clock will move slowly all day
let us pray for good jake tonight lol
i know. need him to be under control



on her tattoo 
lol! go take a nap.
i'm only napping if you nap with me!

i see you like my idea!!! 



hard to believe usa today has article with the title about cleveland is the new city of champions. guess expectations are lower these days
the teams are great this year, the city...not so much.
just not sure 1 championship justifies a new title for a city
just another hot take from the instant gratification generation.   what's your take on millers use in playoffs?  over use?
nope. he is doing what needs to be done to win games. that's what a professional gets paid for and what he loves to do



i'm about to say something here about #parenting and #life and you might have to stick with me for a minute.
i've been having some mental health issues since nola was born and you could say i'm not living my best life.
but nola is a "perfect" child. not really i know, but she's smart and cute and everyone immediately falls in love with her.
and i want her to look cute in her clothes because i don't.
yup. i def get this. luckily oliver still lets me choose his clothes but i hear girls are different



hey do you live near the beach?
nearest beach is about 30-45 mins what's up
can me and my gf stay at your house in the summer, we might go to cali for vacation for 2-3 days
yeah for sure man lol but you sure you wanna visit my area? la is a lot better for beaches
i wanna save money on hotels 



have multiple text fields? no problem. texttile got your back. :)
can we use it? it looks super useful.
yes.. go to texttile.io we just loaded the vispub data this morning.
sweet. thanks! btw, let us know if you need help with the vega/vega-lite integration :-d
sure thing. thanks for offering your help. :)



i was texting a girl the other day askin what music she likes and the artists. idiot gon tell me hip hop rap list two people n said idk
i've asked girls their favorite dates or ideas for things they like and dudes draw up blanks lmfaoo how i know if we compatible ??
gimme a chance, i know what i like lol
nope we better off as friends lol
lmaoo that's true



can't wait for this weekend
see ya there 
plz slap yoself
whyyyy
you wont be there lmao



where are the gsw dick riders lmao
that were telling me they'd be better than they were last year
first game in the regular season and they played the best defensive team in the nba. lebron and the heat lost their 1st game
i understand that i'm not saying there season is done i'm just saying people were calling me dumb for saying they'll lose 18
their*



i got all my cousins in va on to a boogie. now they out here bumping this is what that jungle do, and we literally live in the jungle:
am i seeing you friday and saturday? 
nah sold my tickets lol
but but we miss you ! i'm about to sell my pizza zoo ticket
miss you guys too. my birthday should be a movie:



me &amp; borris were play fighting &amp; i accidentally punched him in the mouth 
that's not nice...
it wasn't my fault. he needs to stop play fighting with me 
don't get to serious cousin haha
i know. i felt bad 



any ideas for a cute girl halloween costume
i'm being a vampire! i have another vampire outfit that i was gonna wear last year that i never did and it would prolly fit u
so we twinning 
we can! lol just gotta get u some teeth i got blood and a choker for u too if u want
yaaay okay 



heres the thing i think i understand about why america isnt going to brexit: uk is 92% white. us is 64%, and shrinking every four years.
brexit didnt have a gendered component that would reasonably skew a vote difference. all of american politics does. every last race.
the reality is, liberals have won 5 of last 6 popular vote elections because we are not archie bunkers country anymore. and haven't been.
to someone like trump, is a reaction to something that's already happened.
100%. white males can scream loudly on their way down but they're still falling into the abyss. meanwhile i'm ::dark pdudenix gif::



i just desperately wrote "iced vanilla chai" in tiny handwriting on a post-it note at work.
where's ur fav chai from for me it's the nordstrom cafe
i'm a dumb lil chai noob and all i've had is store brands and starbucks! i need to go to nordstrom stat 
i like starbucks too but nc is like french kissing a cinnamon stick!!!
attn: tweet-up at the nordstrom cafe/everyone must order chai/everyone must french kiss a cinnamon stick



sorry to ask something so grim but how would you translate    ?
i went for "cure". hmu if you have better.
"to kill with kindness"? (i.e., offering a shower with the disguised goal of beating your foe, etc.)
do you realise quote is about gas chambers?
yes. "cure with gas chamber"--what do you think the irony refers to (buttuming in this context not an actual gas chamber)?



i really want to shave my head again and get a tattoo right on my head!
no
no!?
don't tell me you did it
nooo...... lol



you can't miss your opportunities 
never
oh look you're still awake
barely
why don't you go to sleep?



kyrie gone lead the league in scoring this year watch
nope,
watch.
clock
wrist....... watch



i peeled the skin from my lip
jesus that sounds painful
it is 
what happened??ima send some chap stick your way lol
i just have a habit of bitting it i don't know why



wow, i'm totally seeing an argument against rental properties using a strawman.
more info, please??
i'll talk to you about it
ok!
...appealed to the circuit court, however (we think that's what the plan was to begin with).



as i get drunk off baker's bourbon. no nothing still beats it other than bookers
i was just thinking i should finally tell you the plan! :b wait until you to y slaughter house bourbon tho it's faster stuff
i did. this schedule is bleh
days off in the literal middle of the week seems to friggin weird............
thats what i get for dealing with tards instead of food



someone wants to trade irvin to atl for a 7th rd pick? what?! you sound like someone who goes 1-16 on madden franchise mode...
don't rip on him to hard raider brother.
i just don't understand the logic... or should i say the lack of logic
fandom can be myopic &amp; not logical at times raider brother. we all want to win so bad that we don't always think straight.
you got that right



pharrell's collab w/ adidas on these nmds are decent, but $340 fam? skrt skrt !
that is the human race???
yeahhh, you like em?
of course i fall in love with the nmd's... never worn a pair of sdudes so comfortable... i need more
they look decent fr fr. i'm tryna cop a pair, but the sdude stores don't have the colorways i like. 



who wants to go watch some wrestling with me tomorrow (thursday)?
where and when?!
msu at 6p
hmmm 
let me know  it's free. it's their intrasquad meet. going to be nosey 




fureals i missed you 
i know me too 
well glad we hung out g i love you bro goodnight 
me too we need to kick it more like the old times ! &amp; love u too , good night.



imagine,the next dome in 4 years #optimisticmood
maybe by then we can go lmaooooooooooo
yesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
sets goals lmaooooooooooooooooooo has a savings fund saving up until then lmao
see you there /goes to work hard and save up/ lol



it might be time to turn the heat on soon #holdingout #imisssummer
it might finally be time to close the bedroom window. #imisssummer
it might be time to take out the ac #imisssummer
it might be time to close the swimming pool #imisssummer
it might finally be time to put on pants. #holdingout #imisssummer



just figured out my skin type. (it's combination)
how how
bro i've been watching makeup tutorials all month. idk if u wanna do that lmao
no i just wanna put my dang skin type in my health app 
well i have an oily t zone and then patches of dry skin on like my cheek in the winter



i wonder if swift is important part of apple's car work. the stability concerns make a lot of sense for mission critical systems like cars.
ergg, skeptical of this one. many mission-critical systems are written in c or similar.
swift itself ain't that stable.
i don't think the programming language is the utmost concern with problems like these.
and  i'd be surprised if apple was using swift for anything like that at this point given how the syntax continues to change.



on my way to new york to meet loads of friends and colleagues #abct2016 &amp; celebrate #abct50lucky, lucky me 
. see you there!
when you arriving?
setting off now. arrive tonight
see you later then.



honestly this month break of not playing shows and staying in making music has been so  screwing awesome and productive v much needed
same dude. i was bummed i had no gigs for a min, but it's actually hella valuable studio and chill time
i think i chilled to hard i forgot i djayed lol
good lol
i'm excited to hit the stage on thursday :)



it's great to see you rooting for the team with the dh.
hatred for the cubs &gt; dh
the bucs seem to need one when they play the cubs
the cubs won 103 games. every team needed a dh against them. your twins had a dh and won 59 games
even cleveland o stat master



upset that the suns and thunder have 8 combined games on national tv and the warriors alone have 30
bc they suck get over it
we don't even know if we suck yet we haven't played a game!
well if history repeats itself then yeah
to be fair the thunder did make the playoffs last year 



cool, not sure if i can recover roachie and soltians fics i was working on. the universe is angry at my sept bday friends. sigh.
it's ok the boner i got from talking about it is still real
no,i'm gonna get it. i just have to get the existing thing into gdocs but my ipad is being ugly abt that. you're getting it.
oh i'm getting it alright 
i'm pleased you knew what i meant



when a girl tries to talk baseball with ya and they don't understand that the world series is a series... lol there's more games 
tag em
@ kathy
she was on here phone last night
oh i'm aware



you can see so many stars here, it's beautiful. home is nice 
 screwin' stay there
i'm just kidding i love you 
i pet a disneyland kitten today!!! and tried to post it on my snap but my phone died 
wait do you have a pbutt now



think ima pick up that 7 plus this weekend 
you got  screwing money 
 tryna get like you
i'm tryna get like you!
you doing great



prayers for your dad!  and for you, as well! hugs!
thank you! family dynamics changed &amp; i'm now responsible for more of his care. i'm learning as i go.
i understand! i was my dad's caregiver for years. it's not an easy thing, but we do what we have to!
absolutely! (although if he continues to tell me how to drive, one of us won't be around long - kidding)
hahaha! mine would do the same thing. i would always throw the "you're the one that taught me" card..



wbuttup idiot
wbuttup stupid dumb idiot
what u tryna do idiot
 screw
okay i'll be over friday night



do you plan or go to halloween board game gatherings? if so, what games do you like to bring or play to celebrate?
we played betrayal and kill dr. lucky at our october meet up.
, great! how did you do? i haven't played either, but i've heard good things about both.
fun night. the heroes won betrayal-we had the new expansion cards but an old haunt. dr. lucky was killed-is that good?
, isn't that the point of the game?



58 min
dawg you got all the juice on fb lmao
they fwm on the book 
real crap . i be like dang kenzie gettin the likes up 
 got a big family



ciara is being called a dude for being pregnant by her husband ? lol the hell wrong with y'all . y'all value bf/gf relationships too much
you are the only one saying it
nah i don't see some ignorant folks man smh
no you haven't . show some tweets. you are just saying it
you just responded to someone that said she was lol



the car was parked tho lol they doing most over a pic
people always make a big deal girl.. especially on the internet
and it's sad they telling me what i should lmao you should have just got in the back
they told you to just sit in the back?  wth
yes i said but the car parked they said it don't matter the seat wrong  get in back for a pic



4:12 am
night owl lol
 work nigga 
easy money get that fool. liam keeping me up watching tv smh 
too easy bro lol i been writin raps all night &amp; gettin' paid couldn't have a better job fareal.



hey do you live near the beach?
nearest beach is about 30-45 mins what's up
can me and my gf stay at your house in the summer, we might go to cali for vacation for 2-3 days
yeah for sure man lol but you sure you wanna visit my area? la is a lot better for beaches
it's gonna be in the summer tho



i love using the exclamation point
wow this was very relevant to all our lives thank you!!!!!!!!!!
who is our?



you berkeley people are crazy!!!!!



i swear to gosh i would transfer back to tarleton state just to be close to peacocks!
it is not that good 
you're tripppin to the max rn 
no i just went there and they gave us packaged syrup ...... i'm out after that 
unpackaged syrup?



so ready to take my hair out
then take it out
can you paypal me $200 to get it redone then? thanks.
who you think you talking to?
clearly somebody who don't have $200 



if u don't know me or hang with me i feel bad for you bc i'm a great person and i'm funny af.
idiot where
idiot i miss u haven't seen you since that party lmao
aye round two this friday ;)
hit me up u know i'm down for whatever ayyy (;



does the matte black #iphone7 plus 256gb model actually exist or is it just a rumor? and if so, where the f**k can you find them!?
i don't know, but don't ever change. 
how do you mean dont change?
you get cranky about the same kind of stuff i do.  cracks me up.
so, will we ever see them? or even the 128gbs?



someone come hang and finish these beers w me
dude buttsssssssssssssssssss
i bought a six pack on the way home u said u had to go home foo
true but stilll !!
ayy you could come haha



wooohoooo!!
i totally forgot!  what time does it start again?
it starts at 8! 
hopefully i can find a babysitter! i'll let you kno.
to babysit lmao.



literally have never been more annoyed.
miss you. cheer up, buttercup
ughhh  i miss you too! i wanna go catch pokmon like we used to!! 
next time i'm in mhk we're catching hella pokemon.
pinky promise?



when i go clothes shopping for work.
idk if you've considered/learned about this yet but there are also clear retainer studs you can wear
i've thought about that, but my piercing is so new. it could close up instantly if i take it out. got pierced late september
oh that is still pretty new. you'll figure something out, hopefully to where you can keep it! sorry i couldn't offer more help
of course! i've looked up online tips on how to conceal a nose ring using makeup. i'll be ok. 



this sucks. all of this.
i'll fight you


wow y u gotta hit a girl man ?



procrastination stresses me out. idk how she does it
i can teach you my ways 
i like feeling not stressed and i think brenda would rather not you teach anyone that 
brenda wants to kill me when i tell her how much i procrastinate 
&amp; me. 



watched a documentary on the life of a seahorse earlier and now i'm watching this short film on yellowstone national park. crap is good
remember i said i was a seahorse miss tina
no you're a squid
and you're a sardine
at least i'm light skinned



nothing to see here, just moving across the country in 32 hours, not freaking out or anything
*tears* sooo much ramen in your future
i gotta open up my chopped cheese cart stat, post up outside sneaker lineups and get rich
bruh!!!! straight collect, half of harlem might hate you for bringing chopped cheeses out west but  screw it!!! get rich!
hahaha they gonna hate me back east but all the harlem cats that moved to la gon love me lol



wish val liked backwoods 
bring me a backwood 
bring me a wood dude
scoop i'll shmoke a wood
my mom went in a ditch 



bree got raped txtn me
girl don't do the most, bet you won't get another text!
bet idc 
you ain't got too.
gimmie kiss



i'm too  screwing uneducated about it though i don't know how to make my own crap or anything
ur hot
unhelpful
what kinda music u wanna make like singing or some crap
i wanna try a lot of other things. singing to my own music would be cool but i'm trying to start with just a beat first



good luck to all our basketball coaches and players this season, 1st day of our season begins today 
good luck this season coach 
thanks gonna need it!
you have a good staff and a good group of kids. stay on them and y'all will be fine this season
thanks for the , they do a good job



i came to life when i first kissed you, the best thing has his arms around me. you make me better than i was before..thank gosh, i'm yours 
and i were sang this song by russell dickerson himself. 
omg!!! no girl! please tell soon! 
i've got pictures and video to prove it  best. night. ever.
i'm sure!!  i'm beyond jealous



shouldn't have left my bed to come to clbutt

bro idk what's going on
im here now all that matters
oh wow makes me feel better 



yo
what man
s
you cant be this childish
how mad are you lol



i love being a spurs fan
warriors need some rim protection or it's gonna be a short postseason bro.. i know you're loving simmons. where he come from??
juco and the d league! ya i've been saying they defense and bench are trouble. nobody listened...spurs looked fresh and excited
i think they're bench is fine they just have zero rim protection. like it's sad
true that but i'm ok with it as long as the spurs are playing like that 



hacks helming them aside, why are studios greenlighting adaptations of video-game franchises that are far past their peak popularity?
i think games like uncharted or red dead redemption are great starting points for fun exercises in specific genres.
get the right director/writer to conjure up a fun story to tell within that genre, slap the title on and bam.
i'd be this optimistic if studios didn't think the right director/writer would be shawn  screwing levy
it's even more annoying knowing that joe carnahan wrote the script. potentially great script wasted on mediocre filmmaker.



ok boy. if you're going to sit with me at dinner, don't roast me the whole time plz. i'd rather eat alone. thx.
also. i accidentally flushed my sock down the toilet. what a day, guys. what. a. day.
umm wut
yeah. idk. my life. 
i'm sorry for your loss of foot wear



show me your favorite songs the ones that make you feel things.
bet dude. i'll show you mi corazon
i saw ahj this weekend and u woulda loved it
he's awesome huh?such a cool guy.
yes he was a lot more into than i thought he'd be. super good live



my thumb is throbbing in pain ..that cut was no joke, basically tore off the top layer of skin..good thing it wasn't much
i got cut last thursday a piece of steel sliced a chunk of meat off my hand lol
fuuuuck lol u get stitched up?
na there was nothing to stich so i'm just letting it heal lol
how bad was it, u got pics? lmao



i need a friend who'll help me practice my spanish #plz
puta
adios hombre
marijuana is spanish
thanks for da tip



wyd 
about to get some apple juice wby?


that's why your butt gone stay thirsty



love getting high alone sometimes. 
it's relaxing
omg i know it's great!
blazing by yourself and listening to music or watching a movie is great honestly there's no one to bug you!
oh yes! the best feeling ever



i'm about to say something here about #parenting and #life and you might have to stick with me for a minute.
i've been having some mental health issues since nola was born and you could say i'm not living my best life.
but nola is a "perfect" child. not really i know, but she's smart and cute and everyone immediately falls in love with her.
and i want her to look cute in her clothes because i don't.
people are gonna think she's cute no matter what. and learning to make those decisions is a developmental milestone!



hahahah i'm making money while u in school or at home eating crap u dumbbuttes
how much though
not much but it's better than 0
you are right but i am not a dumbbutt for going to school
na i meant if ur just wasting ur time at school doing nothing



came home to green posole thanks to mom 
omg save me some 
dude yes come and eat tomorrow even if i'm not here!
do you work tomorrow 
yes at both :-(



once you visit home for a few days you realize how much college *isn't* home. it's really hard not to feel isolated
don't worry, it will become your second home-which is almost equally as homey as home 
idk. it's more the people. my family is so close to me, they care about me so much, its a huge absence when i'm in sm

i mean it's not all bad it's a huge blessing i have that all. i guess i didn't realize how important distance to them was for me



after we trade for boogie straight to the finals 
false 
we bout to reclaim our thrown in the east
did you forget about who is still in the east ? 
can't forget him but his time is over



i'm the brokest nigga on twitter r didn't know you know about "broke"
broke people don't get cars. cars need maintenance and that equal money.
what car?
same one in your avi
it even my car smh just posing next to somebody car



rudy giuliani has really showed his true colors, dumb as a bag of rocks!!!
and your verdict is based on what evidence #truthmatrs
just by listening to his remarks and how he refuse to allow rational thoughts and statements to come out if his mouth
listening to his remarksyou can't argue that ccuomo would not let rjuliano answer a question w/o interruption #truthmatrs
chris wld correct him with facts, and to u and ur idiot candidate, i walked to store, got two loaves of bread, ddnt get shot



im tryna be patient for another  screwing hour but it's hhaaaarrrddd
can you believe ill be 17 wow
yes because seventeen comes after sixteen and you were born almost seventeen years ago
lmao i still feel like a child
your age do not determine your childlike nature, u can always be a child @ 



some folks on the right seem to be upset because i'm not name-calling and bashing megyn kelly. i like her. deal with it. 
you can like her just don't call her a real unbiased journalist
i don't think megyn kelly is biased. everyone on the right seems to think she is, but i don't see it. 
take off your rose colored glbutted and actually look...she's not only biases but very nasty
nah. not really.



i voted for perot, he was right about nafta &amp; so was i. why are some people  voting for trump? he isn't hillary, &amp; vice versa
i know many people who think both parties are just in it for themselves, thus they both suck of the teats of wall street.
to make matters even worse, you have pundits like joe &amp; the like create wedges, and offer opinions that have no substance.
made in the usa used 2 mean something, now all the manufacturing jobs are elsewhere. why? so corporate america can get more $
it's a global econ. forigen firms build plants in us. us builds plants overseas. been going on for decades



the amount of times i have pressed snooze today is embarrbutting
it's okay you deserve it
you're so cute 
love u
love you more 



"if you're making people awesome &amp; delivering value continuously, somehow people stop caring about estimates." - #modernagile
you're missing another qualifier: your competition sucks. we do the first two and need estimates constantly.
what for jay?
there's roi on all that we build. customers prioritize based on highest roi, which is impacted by build cost
yes, shipping highest roi fastest is the goal. build options &amp; their cost must be considered to hit that goal.



macos sierra lets you remap the esc key to another modifier key. whew. say gbye, caps lock :) #newmacbookpro
what?! no! how will you convey anger or excitement?!
use the shift key like a civilized person. only barbarians with poor manual dexterity use caps lock!
eh?
ie: hold down the shift key for words you want capitalized, instead of willy-nilly caps locking everything like a barbarian :)



the only reason they don't? they will not deviate from #theplan which includes trusting #hunter and his drafting. allow picks to develop.
if that isn't their plan, which i guarantee it is, then they are morons.  never have more cap room than the next 2 yrs..
wrong. mentality is to win every game right now. management controls the time frame. that mentality though is fragile.
when you have 3 all stars on ecls you have no better time to load up
i agree. insulate. but the retained salary sucks and why blow the cap on risky ufas that restrict paying the young studs



so why hasnt the us of a added pins the the credit chip cards
some do have the option, but it's rare. seen a couple of customers at work that have to pin with their chip cards.
its just, ever since i can rme we here, the credit card by default had the pin number same as the debit  which can be changed.
usa is weird. none of us understand it either.
oh well,  cant always be on top!



bruh, it's dumb cold today 
it's new york, it's always cold
not always though. it didn't start getting cold until this week. last week, i was out here wearing a dress, vibin in the 80s.
it felt like 80 cause you lightskin smh
smh  not even. i heard lightskin folks stay cold. and while we're on it, you only like a shade darker than me though 



reminding folks that megyn kelly is not any kind of feminist icon to woc. not with all that racism.
as i see white women throwing kelly's name out as someone to admire i wonder just how close to white supremacy some of you want to be.
kelly has had no problem excusing police brutality, pushing her own racist narratives onto kids, and generally being a terrible person.
kelly's conflict with trump will end. and she will be right there on fox supporting ryan's racist clbuttist policies. that's her job.
kelly's conflict with trump is in the script.



you busy bih?
nah doods i'm at mi casa con valeria chillin 
tell val que su tia says hi 
she said oh hey 
oh forreal val? das how you gone do me?



i'm so sleepy.
schleep
i would lol if it were that simple.
lmao cant just close ya eyes and count sheep?
i'm at the er. might put my head in my lap lol but that's the best i got.



i love my mother in law 

 daddy lumba's mom 
so it's on?
lol nah b, but we are cool 



good morning everybody! :d
morning~ ^^
good morning. how are you doing today?
doing good. it's night time over here though. xd
oh ok. i guess that's the magic of the internet haha glad your day went well!



how do you volunteer for the foundation if you live in canada? is it possible? i really wish i could help somehow.
thanks for the support margaret, why don't you hold an event or fundraiser - that way you can support our work from afar! x
that is a great idea! thanks for the reply. i will do my best to come up with something. talk to you again. xox
wonderful! thank you margaret, feel free to email us at fundraising.org for ideas or support x
lady sells and she said they do fundraisers. amazing scents!



thinking i might block off every friday for a month to mockup and dabble with new ideas.
in q1 of 2016 i did a new product build once a month in 24 hours. that was fun. team can't handle more product right now.
but would be fun to sketch, draw and scope all the random ideas i have. surely that would produce some tangental benefits somewhere else.
feel free to share them my way. you would like what i'm working on right now :)
tell me!! :)



nothing like my iphone going from 66% to 13% in 15 min..only took 1 pic &amp; texted hubby that i was at work. so tired of battery draining
is it an old phone?
it's a 6s! started draining battery before the ios 10 update. just weird today! an old one did it when it got too cold.
that is weird. and frustrating
very much so! and i charged it once i got to work. shot from 13% to 64% in mere seconds!



durham bound today
i need to make my way back to raleigh i miss it up there 
lol ive never been to raleigh
omg i want to come with bout to blow a grand at the malls i love it up there and prob gone get my second tat by the same dude
lol blow a grand? crap i wish i had that to blow



waking up like this never gets easier.
you need to come visit me. and take a break from susie
in january for the calfire academy.
calfire academy??? why have i not heard about this?
it's just like the structure academy, it's practically just a long clbutt. doesn't mean i'm hired anywhere



next time im home ill be at the usc track running if yall want these hands on the corps was up
wazzup man. pull up with dem dickzz
bro.... thats homosexual chill
sorry private
im hurt you



so, i'm in the middle of your wonderful #thisisus recap when you mentioned wanting to call home after a bama win &amp; girl me too!
roll tide! if toby had paused that a&amp;m game saturday, he would be dead now.
i was pbutted out in a cold medicine haze on saturday and missed the whole thing. did you go to ua?
yes! clbutt of 1995.
clbutt of 1993! speech comm major, theater minor, ra in tut and palmer. roll tide!



2 more days idiotes
 screwing lucky butt
youre not going?!?
no dude i wanted to do  screwing bad ! but i can't i need to save money lol everyone is telling me to go but to much money already
what am i gunna do without you



so any m43 shooters out there who are wondering if the helios 44-2 is worth it? it is. i lucked into a solid one. magical.
i picked up one. my favorite thing about it is the bokeh.
are you shooting on a full frame rig? 5dmkiii? i'm thinking of getting a focal reducer for my setup since it's a 118mm on my panny.
5d mk ii
so yeah full frame. man i wish the 4k on the mark 4 wasn't bollocks. i miss full frame.



trade everybody
go cavs
current favorite teams:1) cavs (go cavs)2) 76ers (gotta support my fellow shirley templer)3) okc (russ)4) clippers (i like them)19) gsw
for my followers who are considering leaving due to basketball coverage: soon i will also resume livetweeting my grocery store trips
book. book. we need book!!



hate staying up this late bc i always get hungry but too lazy to get up and eat.
make me something too while you're at it
what are wife's for
loving their man and making bomb butt sandwiches for sure
well i ended up eating a bag of goldfish



pooh ?
yes?
nvm i was out front of your crib last night 
wtf  why?
i was coming from my crib out there by yours 



anyone sell translation rights to their sel-published book?
was offered twice but didn't follow through
did they look legit and you didnt feel like a lawyer, or did they look scammy?
legit oreilly japan. and some guy via email for turkey i think.
ah. i got one from oreilly japan.  might talk to a lawyer, but no idea what the roi would be



time to watch #scream season 2
you'll be sooooo freaking on the edge of your seat
i seen the first season just not the 2 . it's already good 
you'll love it
finished all of scream season 2 dam i had a feeling it was him , but of course it's gonna continue lol



do people still play world of warcraft? like that sounds like such an iconic mid 2000s thing but it still exists???
remind me to tell you about my wow obsessed, mega loser of a cousin sometime 
how much good boy points does he have?
his rice score is hands down 100
jesus  screwing christ how is that even possible? my friend who is waiting till marriage for sex is at least a 72



okay i made up my mind...no more eating out for two weeks, and i'm saving all the money i can lmfao
u sure u been saying this smh lol
watch 
show me then 
i'm two weeks



hillary would be our 3rd black president if by "black president" u mean another president with a lot of black support doing nothing for them
over 90% of us aren't stupid for voting for hrc. we have a reason for voting the way we do. do u know why ur voting 4 trump
didn't say they were but this is the 3rdtime a large amount of black people voted4a president that couldn't care less about them
i agree....it's just that less than 5% who votes against their interest. 95% of us know what we're doing. #winning
continuing to supporting democrats and not getting anything out of it says otherwise



i seriously feel like one of my bffs hates me now 
wanna know who i hate?? benji. he peed on me.
sucks to be u 
i took him out of the kennel and he got all happy i carried him and he peed i threw his butt right back in
i forgot to warn you about that lmao. he just gets very excited!



please keep my dad in your prayers. 3rd time called down to the hospital this month, hoping this is the time the transplant finally happens.
surgery is on! please continue the prayers, now comes the long part! gosh is good.
i'm at the hospital. dad's surgery started around 2-3 am. please keep those prayers up for a tough 8-10 hour transplant. gosh is good.
praying so hard man! im happy for your family that he's finally getting the surgery he needs.
thank you so so much! we're praying hard down here!



its just cute couples on my tl now..... time 4 me to go, i don't belong
!!!!
cries bc lonely
can relate. ily 
love you most bb 



#worldseries
go tribe.
come on now!
1-0 baby. that's what i'm talking about. i hope they dont have to wait another 108 years, but i hope they do have to wait 1 more
i don't know! cleveland can't match the pitching depth that the cubs have and i'm hoping that's what tips the scales our way!



got my back on this one #inkmaster 
good thing he doesn't listen to dark matter yet ... "snacks up your butt ..."  (hope everything's ok though) 
yes he managed to blow the marble out of his nose. seriously almost crap my pants. 
good story &amp; btw todd &amp; dan need callers tonight ... 
crap forgot about the whole time difference crap 



good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ill see you tmrw!!!!!!
wait what raves are you doing this weekend
not the same raves as y'all but lauren said we were pregamning together and ur coming to the edm brunch



theoretically, lets say you have a companion, should it be controlled by the leader or act depending on the situation in the fight?
is this for bs? how's the combat work right now? i think that would be an important influence on the direction you take.
personally i don't find ai companions very fun or game-changing, they're often just... there.
it'd be cool to implement a coop mode w this feature though. not sure how accessible that'd be on the roblox platform tho.
if it's turned-based definitely buttume control. making it ai just creates another variable you can't control.



well i got a $40 tip and then a $.30 tip just shows the high and low point of my day
man i got a .10 tip on sunday smh
rather just get 0! it's more embarrbutting to give a few cents
exactly it's crazy! work this morning?
helping out mowing yeah with the our buddy!



you can't have a spirit of discernment without letting the holy spirit teach you on how to hear and how to see, both naturally&amp;spiritually
 you alonna, always with the positive messages
awww my girl!!!! thank you. it's always so good to hear encouragement 
of course. stay positive and you 
yes ma'am! love you sis 



i wish i have something longer term to look forward to??? i feel like i've essentially been going from place to place and everything felt
like it was a temporary stage towards something else and i hate it. i just want to find a place to settle down and be surrounded
by friends and people i love and be able to really go all out on what i want to do.
then i wanna go home, but i dont wanna leave vancouver because i feel like this is where i should be, but at the same time...
i hope sometime in the near future we will all be reunited again. we are still young and there's a lot to explore



when we not talking crap, that's how you know that's not normal
lmao. tbh.
there isn't a day where we don't talk crap. it's like a must every time we see each other.
always got crap to tell each other. i'm surprised u ain't tell me crap while you were in government 
he wasn't even there in clbutt lmao. i think they find out that he was skipping.



you can see so many stars here, it's beautiful. home is nice 
 screwin' stay there
i'm just kidding i love you 
i pet a disneyland kitten today!!! and tried to post it on my snap but my phone died 
that literally is the saddest ellen i could ever imagine oh my gosh



u down for a 2v2 chall??
after 2 1nds
ready?
my shot is awful we will play for 5 lmaoooo
okay link



them snipers be  screwin' me up in battlefield 1. i'm bout to get right though ...
how is it bro
it's great nothing less.
oh dang let me get that
yea, it's huge the game play. it's got everything, spend the money &amp; go premium. great dlc no lie.



i'm not ready for this episode fam
missed it sunday, and someone canceled my recording :)  i'm never up this late, but i'm staying up to watch replay at 3:30!
it's rough
started at 315.  20 minutes in and i'm already at a loss for words....
that...was disturbing.



i think i'm single idk tho
lol
i'm actually confused
how do you not know lol
bruh it's a long story but just know he ain't call back



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
and then that mouse had the nerve to try to eat our kibble!  let this be a lesson fur all the other mousies!  
well, that is just simply the limit! a lesson for sure! glad you made an example of him! rrrrrrrroar!



5:30am and the garbage truck slams the dumpster to the groundat the school across the street, won't miss that when we move
lol  garbage day here to an i live next to the school.  same. thing.
this happens every morning even in the summer when there is no school
yep and the windows are open an it scares the crap outta ya
and the twice a day traffic crap show with parents



before the army i was wild doing dumb crap in relationships now i'm just ready to settle down and enjoy life and adventure with somebody
respect bro! 
off rip bro 
proud of you too my g fr
i'm trying man i'm trying.. tryna stay above water &amp; focused until i'm where i need to be. proud of you to foo &amp; thats 



everyday i'm getting more and more sick of #facebook, considering how prolific it is, is it possible to truly disengage from that site?
i deleted my fb account over a year ago and havent looked back.
... maybe i just need to remove the app from my phone (no notifications) and just use the site once in a while &amp; keep the chat
yeah, i gradually weaned myself off of it over 6 months or so.
if i tried to drop twitter right now, though, id probably have a hard time with that



i usually listen to the local cleveland radio broadcast of indians games. feels like i won't want to listen to fox bcast.too much cubs slant
that would be joe buck.
i listened to tv crew some last night. buck was fine. went on and on abt lindor and kluber. he'll be unbearable in chicago.
the silver lining in cardinals not making playoffs was no buck.
buck lost me when he called that packers vikings game where randy moss fake mooned gb and he acted like moss killed someone



coworker asked me who will win more games? browns all season or tribe in the world series 
how did you answer?
let me just say tribe needs 4 wins that's all. browns might have a chance at 2 wins...maybe lol
i agree.
they want the #1 pick again for sure. and if they win any games it could lose them that pick (see hoyer)



, you suck. #comcastsucks
hello mari. i'd like to see what i can do to help you see the game.  please dm your acct# and i can see what i can do to help. -ql
too late. we went out and by the time we came back it was on. it was still a pita.
i apologize about that, are the services back to normal now? dp
well, yes, but that doesn't make up for having to scramble to find a place to watch the game.



didn't play any songs of #theblack :( i had expected they would play the ones that aren't about danny.
it was probably easier to go with songs danny knew the marks for already since they didn't have much time



will start playing songs from #theblack again because people love the songs. x
we love the old songs as well 



where are the chill butt nice dudes at?
was asking myself this today smh
i'm lucky if anyone talks to me at this point if i'm being honest with myself
girl me too!! i honestly find it hard to believe anyone's ever gonna wanna be w me like that
you're bomb as  screw tho like deadbutt i'm pretty sure some dude will come around ready to drop everything for you give it time



i just want to travel the world and make amazing memories. that's all.
come to australia
do not tempt me
no seriously, i'll be here probably until may!
might have to come for spring break



people wish i drew pokemon a lot more, and yet no one commissions them. i don't understand.
90 percent of the art i do has to be commission work to pay bills and such. i will gladly draw other things for money.
this! so many times people want to see more fan art of poke, but unless its a commission, its hard to fit in free art time
maybe i should put more pokemon examples on my commission example sheet.
thats an idea! i think i need to update my examples too



whyyyyyyy am i not in tokyo just whyyyyyyy
weep weep weeeeps
t_________t we'll need lots of tissue today.are you ready? :d lol
i'm really not i'm not gonna lie. /grabs so many tissues. we should start the tissue pile now huh?
yes.time for it let's goooooooo



guess who can't sleep
haha me too kill me
i've been laying in bed for over an hour lmao we got this
i have counted... so many sheep chelsea.
hahaha what sucks is i almost fell asleep when i laid down and then i just....didn't. and now i can't



ima really fight him
you better be talking bout someone else 
.... &amp; if im not?
im gonna be at your door step in 5 
not scared soo.... i'll be waiting to beat some butt



some dick just posted a major walking dead spoiler... sooo pissed.  screwkk youuuu 
what was it?
i'm not about to  screw it up for everyone else.
i wanna know but i don't at the same time lol
it's a given, but still uncalled for. hit that unfollow asap lol.



does anybody really like john lester? i'd really like the #cubs to win but he's a tough guy to root for. he's got a belichick  personality
cancer survivor, does a lot of work helping children's cancer research.  solid guy.
john lester?
jon lester.
got it. he's got a pbutt. pitched a good game. teammates let him down. bases loaded, zero runs. no hits with risp. only one game



how was your trip ?
it was incredible thanks, how did you know about it? lol
facebook and gigi
you need to watch our first video!
whats the link?



hey you go to nccu?
yes.
me too,  your cute ,what's your major?
thank you  &amp; criminal justice
me too lol , what's your number so we can keep in touch?



my ex taught me how ugly trusting people can get
nooooooo
dead butt
sucks! y'all seemed solid. that's life though, people change
lol i thought we were too



happy birthday!
dang jay, the plug like that bro
you want me to give you a lil shout out?
lmao put your boy on
you went sky diving?



please gosh don't listen to the song "entropy" while doing thermo hw it'll stress u out the chorus is "calculate the entropy" im not even
how's the pset this week
wrote a stressful physics song
i'm gonna check it out brb
 screwen warned u



wya broda
at the house man. wbuttup
i was trynna see if you trynna burn it. but you ain't in town :/
crap id be down but i just got back to the house lol i'd say slide but i know that's a mission
if you change your mind hit me lol i got 2 blunts



definitely didn't go to english to get an extra hour of sleep. yeah.
if you would have went to bed at the time you said. you would have been fine
also these cramps kicking my butt rn, feel like i'm being stabbed by all the ex friends i have.
lol dang girl take some pills!
i did!!!! the question is, when they gone kick in??? 



anything good on netflix i havent seen?
enter the void, charlie countryman (i have a bias towards shia labeouf), moonrise kingdom (beautiful movie, literally)
what kinda bias? lol
i just think he's a beautiful man haha. trainspotting, good will hunting, snow on tha bluff, the imitation game, american beauty
some of my favourites right there but ive never seen snow on the bluff, ill check it out



watching this tnt nba deal about race, such weak sauce, so out of touch of the legit issues of the movement, why bother then
like...what...is...the...point if you're giving one sided opinions?
can at least one of them talk about their experience about how they were fd with because of their race, they have stories
especially jim brown. they're not offering anything outside of typical victim/community blaming. this is solving nothing.
i have so much respect for him too, he is too old for this conversation



my tl is so dead coz none of my uk people are awake and active 
i am  lol how are you
i'm good! how are you?
that's what up! mi deh yah mon another day another dollar you know.
i hear you brother



broke my apple watch
what did you do?
lol idk tbh
oh  guess i don't need an apple watch then lmao
lol get one



looking for the dodgers game on my tv guide...
did you dvr it??
must have missed it... they play again soon right?
yeah yeah, they kick the season off in april!
oh the same time the orioles play again!! perf!!! i secretly miss you



this boy told me only niggas with lil dicks know about cars
i bet he himself has a small dick lol . like who says if u know this information u have a small dick. some1 who has no confidence
nah deadbutt though lol he's my nigga but like really????
yeah he sounds stupid af lol . whatever make he's joking lol
maybe *



i was told by a support person that support would be open today.
i'm so sorry! our phone support wasn't available yesterday. i'd be happy to help here on twitter if help is still needed! -pc
i reached support via phone yesterday. but, the skull known issue is affecting me.
were they able to buttist? if not, we'd be happy to buttist further via dm! please let me know! thanks-pc
no they weren't. apparently, engineers working known issue. hopefully resolved by thurs and al dept revenue will understand.



happy c-day my nigga 
my nigga big birdd crap fam thanks my dude that crap means a lot stay up out there g
boy i ain't know you ain't talking to me hunch back of norte dame
why you look like dr. doofenshmirtz tho ..
bruh i still got all the old craps and some new craps let's not start this roast



who eats tamales at 1 am in the middle of october?.... me 
omg tfti again 
my tia virginia made some on sunday you missed out homie
wow i always miss out on everything :(
they were just masa but still bomb haha



every girl needs sum chocolate in they life
that part 
true facts yo
i dig ur style lol
thank u



anyone think #obama gave away the internet hoping to silence #wikileaks ?#icann  thankful 4 truth  keep 'em coming!



so, they have the power, the control, and they've tried to silence #julian buttange .    just my thoughts. 



i hope you have a great day, i misunderstood your use of the word 'why' followed by a question mark.



can i upload clips and fails with no reactions?
yes. just don't call it "live" clips and fails. lol
im bout to tag you in some crap fam lol
on the way to school but remind me when i get home and i'll watch.
will do bruh



i just pbutted that government twat with a 90 &amp; did my review so i really gotta 100


you could've helped me
i didn't know 



what's the gender neutral equivalent of calling someone daddy or mommy in a kinky sense 
good question i wanna know so i can effectively kinkshame non binary ppl as well
bug mama 
"insectoid parental unit"
give it to me hard, insectoid parental unit !!!



wish i could memorize stuff after reading it once smh
that's because your mind doesn't care about what your reading lol.
it kinda does and it kinda doesn't because i actually find this stuff that i'm reading interesting lol
we'll see it's not 100%. yeah best way to memorize stuff is like review notes like an hour three or four times a day.
yeah i need to start going over my notes at least twice a day i just hate studying lol



white girls singing about "niggers" stealing shouldn't have had to face any repercussions? .....
nope bc evidently it was 1) a famous vine they repeated 2) there was no malicious intent 3) it was all freaking jokes
they're not 5 year olds. them repeating what they heard isn't an excuse. it does not matter if there was malicious intent.
of every race say that word all the time to their friends. there should've been no repercussions, if there had to be then
everybody  deserves those same reprimands. that's al i'm trying to get at



i don't have a lot of respect for those who hide behind neutrality on super-important topics. one of them will win. pick a  screwing side.
you don't have to actually vote for either, but when asked a direct question you should be able to answer which you'd rather have.
frankly, i'd like to know where you stand at crunch time, and i think that's fair. "i don't like either" doesn't address the question.
they're not identical, so you should be able to choose between horse crap, or grandpa's follow-through even though neither are palatable.
there are &gt; two choices. weren't amoral



and i were snuggle/cuddle bunnies  blissfully wonderful 
sigh...my dreams about sam are always weird. one time he was my math teacher.
ew! that's sad
haha i would've been a math genius if he'd been my teacher in school! #hotteacher
no, you'd be a genius in something else all together #dirtygirl



hhsur pep rally's ain't crapur student section ain't crapur sports ain't crap do u even have spirit days besides botb ? i'm curious .
okay stop  thats wrong
your football team wins sometimes .. the only thing worth being acknowledged is your basketball,wrestling, and water polo
every sport at hemet is better then wv ?
ya'll act like we ain't crap because our football team is the best .. but neither is yours lmao



i heard someone saying my name but no one up 
that's scary
it's the devil
maybe it is maybe it ain't
we could never no



in fairness, this demo is pretty ballsy #openstacksummit
next up, installing openstack in real-time...
on a raspberry pi.
iot fridge...
all of this dev work, to tell you that you need more milk.






thank you!! 
miss you, jamil!!
miss u! come party!
dance party??? i'm down:-))



i want you all to myself i swear.
but this dick for everybody
whyyyyyy are you always bothering me 
umm do you know what your face looks like
what does it look like 



"i believe that loss and emptiness and confusion often give way to new fullness and wisdom."
i just love this who said it

wait really? so how come you had to put quotes around it why didn't you just state your belief asking for a friend
hahahahah you caught me ;)



wtf should i watch
amber alert
is it good?
yea
if the description butt 



i heart the plastics because they aren't arrogant about america, even when we do things for them. misfits? they knooow we love them. #bbott
like the reason neeley going up was because kryssie didn't let us put scott up.
you don't even know if america would have put scott up. america doesn't really like the misfits if you haven't noticed. #bbott
i wasn't saying that i was repeating what kryssie said she's so delusional. i voted neeley all the way
omg- i am so sorry. i keep getting mean tweets from people about my plastics favoritism.



can we please stop with all the boomer-age senior managers here that just endlessly battle for power while providing zero value to the org??
if i see one more infographic or thinkpiece about millennials being lazy and boomers being producting i'll die
nearly every obstructionist i've encountered in office settings is 40+ and refuses to change at all argvhghhfserfvg
need an analyst yet because hi
hey dork did you read your fing text messages yet?



gya
i can't believe they have fingers and elbows in the end
they look like. lalafel. i think is the name??? ffxiv tinies. tiny dumpling lightning
yep lalafells. but lalafells are evil everyone who plays non-lalafells sacrifices lalafells for clears in raids.
holy  screw. seems fair though, they definitely look untrustworthy to me



stephanie, so excited for you! i love all the buzz caraval is getting! i can't wait to read it! congrats!!! &lt;3 &lt;3
oh, lynne! how are you always so sweet?! thank you so much--this means a lot!!
back at you, stephanie!:) just really stoked for you...you only debut once, and i'm over the moon for you. caraval is big!:)
next time i see you i am so giving you the biggest hug!!!
*smoosh* :)



looking for willow tree(s) near boise please @ me
there's one in my neighborhood!
does it touch the ground? like the vines haha
i can check tomorrow!
i just need one for a shoot  so it's gotta be majestic haha



's wedding in san francisco city hall today.
how long before you swap the uk for san fran?! haha enjoy.
would have happened ages ago if i had my way man haha.
great place. shame i was there when no sport was on!
you should come back when there is. great sporting city.



it's one game. warriors will be fine. but kd has shot a lot of okc type shots. not wide open, beautiful ball movement shots.
lol @ ppl talking crap about the dubs. they didn't lose to sacremento. they will be fine.
they thought they could walk in and beat anyone. they can't. they know that now &amp; will be perfectly fine.
they will struggle to protect the rim and rebound...but that's about it. their perimeter d is a+
yep. it actually took the spurs a bit to start getting penetration. started off by dumping it down into the post



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
well i made it 51 minutes without crying. a new record. i was so close to getting to the end. dang you #thisisus !
does it count itself out if you were crying before,(a stubbed toe) stopped, then cried again? 26 minutes. #thisisus
was the second waterworks from the show or still the stubbed toe?
toe~then stopped~then started again during the show.



omfg. you phoned that one in. love your tweets, slow down and be you. your fine.
"you're."   
was kidding. your doing fine. i didn't mean to say it like that. you truly are a great writer
again... "you're." haha... no worries.
ok. but feel bad.



listen #leafsnation matthews,nylander,marner,our d etc... are all gonna take time to get better,this is a process,be patient #tmltalk
if we want to support kids we'll go watch junior hockeysame old story... suck it up buttercups and ice a team
if you think that we're somehow just supposed to be a contender because we drafted matthews you're surely mistaken man
i don't think... i absolutely know, without a goalie, the team is nothing. anyone who thinks otherwise isn't up to speed
we have a lot of inexperience on this team,so just as babcock/shanny said,it's gonna be bad before it gets good,but i'm all in



#wikileaks has confirmed everything non-hc shields have been saying about hillaryat least hillary being corrupted isn't up 4 debate anymore
if wikileaks is all u have...that's pathetic. every time they release emails, she widens her lead over trump and jill
no it isn't but they have proven hillary is a two faced person.
we have bernie and e.warren with us. i trust their judgment. whatever hrc is bernie is the same 4 supporting her.
b/c they don't like trump.warren and sanders were late to supporting her.sanders isn't like hillary



these  screws are really watching porn in my lounge
i do not believe
they stopped when they saw my tweet
was it tim
nah it wasn't... i won't tell who it was though



met kristians mom today &amp; she's so cute . i feel like we're gonna get along 
so happy for you!!
thank you sm tabby 
lord knows you deserve this happiness! love you s'much lexxxx
good gosh this is all i've been waiting for love you sm more tabbbs. 



if you could have one, would you want a hump day for your life? you'd wake up and know you were halfway to the end, no question about it.
100% of my anxiety comes from not having this.
like this morning, is this pain in my head an aneurysm that will pop any moment or just a headache. i will obsess all day
i get it sometimes when the heart does its "three beats on, one beat off" thing.
plus the practicality, if i knew today was the day my brain pops, i'm not going to work



. i'm all for anything that could get rid of the arrogant umpires
skunk drunk billy martin was a saint back in the day, cocaine 70's-80's,roids in the 90's, now bad upmires?
i just think they make it too much about themselves. a player even looks at them the wrong way they're ejected.
i agree to a point, strike zone is a mess, but do not know what they said to each other last night-all year? grudge?
i'm not sure what you mean.



whatd you get in 351
82/100 let's gooooooo woooooo !!!!!
lol how did you do on the test
omg sorry i thought i replied to your other tweet already xd i got 84 *-*
i think we deserve froyo . but i'm still so full lol .



i just watched "this is us" and it made me cry a little bit.....again. lmao.
that show  screws me up man
i always talk about being heartless but every week when i watch it i'm a little idiot lmao
lmao ok me
currently my favorite show... until nashville comes back.






avoid left on 6. #sageadvice
that's being a bad caddy, never say don't
i didn't. i said avoid
supposed to say keep it right on 6



im shuffling through my ygo decks and why is my dragon deck so useless? i need to rebuild it. my blackwing deck is still gucci tho
i havent played in so long tho im super rusty w my cards and their effects.
lets gooooo
 screw ur deck
i have three decks man .



grows by the day
same girl i just love her
the new originals season came on to netflix and it reminded me of how much i love her 
and once you catch up the new season starts in january or february on cw!!!!
wait these girls came up to my last week and said "do you know chloe from h2o?" and i was like yeah yeah 



morning everyone
good morning.
hope your day is starting off well
slow but ok. how about you?
slow isn't always bad, high pain day but i'll make it through



i can't wait for the netflix marvel characters to finally join forces and beat the crap out of daredevil.
eh, i guess i'd rather they were just as annoyed with daredevil as i am.
haven't seen the new season. what's gone bad?
i liked the first season. 2nd season doesn't live up to the nuance of the other marvel shows.
i watched a few episodes and it just wasn't catching my attention at all.



i don't care about no pillow talking or nun of yo stupid friends 
wya ?
right next to you 
ian even see you
girl cause you with that ugly butt idiot



i think wearing a winter jacket to bmo today is gonna be a football first for me 
layers! sunday was thermals, two shirts, my kit and jacket.
i'm just wearing my kit under my jacket and got my scarves
ah you'll be fine!
i can handle (slightly) the ottawa winter, i can handle anything



so i'm getting $6,000 or more from the guy i sued. this what you get for driving without a license and hitting me and my mom.
time to shop! eh lmao
honestly 
more sdudes and ikebana 
 screw yesssss



still in pain, hurts like hell to move my arms.
oh crap what happened?
i think i overdid it when training the other day, i'm hoping it's just really sore muscles and nothing else.
none of it is in the joints right?
not really, just close to 'em.



good night karen 
good night terri, sleep well 
still wide awake &amp; got to be up in three hours watching cher on youtube 
i'm wide awake cause i'm at work, keeping the world safe &amp; saving lives, lol 
were are you working



i wonder on a scale of one to ten how bad a breast reduction hurt ...i want one 
my mommy had one its painful post op of course the worse part is sleeping in a recliner for 3-6 weeks
hmmm im thinking about getting one but yea bc i sleep on my stomach i almost used to wanna cry when i was pregnant lmao
lol the biggest part is keeping them from sweating under the incision so they wont get infected
oh &amp; you'll have to wear cotton bras but after about 3 weeks u can sleep in the bed



i'm back.
return to sender
 you're like my bestfriend in my head, but in real life you so rude 
did that say return to sender? it should've said good morning friend. auto correct is crazy sometimes 
 have a great day, goofball.



mdr le plan de mon coloc a fonctionn : son sugar daddy lui a propos de se marier pour une green card(a fait 10min qu'il crie)
oh lord
jpp de ce garon, mais grave hte de pleurer  leur faux mariage
aucun respect pour lui-mme ce pauvre garcon
idiotes gotta find their way in



i would kill for some orange chicken rn
that's intense
i don't mess around when it comes to orange chicken
you're the hero this city needs
i do what i can to help my community



this is my first time going to school w no make up 
and i be you still look better than everyone there
i got " omg ur freckles are so cute" like 20 times 
" i didn't know you had freckles "
because we're twins duh ... "you should show your freckles off more" "you look good natural " but *still beats face *



your tweets about texas are making me want to come home 
... oh yeah, that's right ... i'm still in sd . i'll be home in fall of next year!!
you're supposed to visit me here in texas, but wya
but i have a really long winter break! so i'm sure i can come back home and visit 
when is it? 



what's better : ss3 or jeffery?
ss3
you don't fuxk with jeffrey?
jeffery i like ss3 i like better tho
yea i just been rocking with it



so the line up for clbuttic weekend is blac youngsta, jeezy, gotti, gucci and lucci....
when is it?
weekend of november 18-20th
sounds like the get down
every year



my dad thinks i'm ganna sell him my car for 1,000$ hahahahahah wtf this ain't no honda 1996 hahaha
what kind of car is it
2005 dodge magnum
you actually drive a cool car haha. did you crash it pretty bad?
yea it's nice i just don't like how long it is it's jut my pbuttenger door



dude! seriously, not nice
what's not nice lol
bit i i'll live...i guess
oh nah my twitter was hacked
well should i wait til ya fix that



missouri sure is proud of trump, i'm glad i don't live here anymore. also i'll be glad when the election is over!
if i wasn't traveling out of town today, we should have done lunch or something while you were coming through. maybe next time!
wrong part of missouri sweety
oh my. i saw 'oak grove' and thought you were a little closer. 
headed toward salem *hugs*



reminds me of hyper tour wwwwwwwwww :3
yes lmaoooo junho just  screwing running around the stage calling out everyone's names
that was the cutest thing his love for 2pm ahhhh
yesssssss lmao just. /cries so hard. he's so precious i love him ugh.
cries with you he really is ahhhhhh



care that they are totally and completely irrelevant...?#windians #worldseries #cavsmania #monsters
don't been mention the b word.  they've had their chances to be good and they blew it big time.
that's an understatement. i wonder if haslam knows or cares what a joke this team is.
i don't even know.  he's the worst owner in organized sports.
but no more of this depressing talk. three more wins!!!



my friends just reminded me that there's a horrific picture of me blacked out at an after prom from high school somewhere on the internet 
i have one of u pbutted out in ur own car while me and lashayla went to steggs
i'm just trying to live
i wanna live with u
bishhh u livin more than me i miss you and your friend from the party the down butt idiot



good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
do u leave today?
no tmrw at 3pm!!!

i literally feel like i won't see u guys for forever....



i just need a mbuttage ! 
a mbuttage for a mbuttage wbuttup
down but i need my feet mbuttaged still got me or ?
i'm wit it shawty as long as they don't stink!
they don't ! i get my pedis 



probs gonna kicked out of math bc of my cough
i honestly was scared to show up a few days because i had a runny nose and didn't want her to hear me sniffing..
i keep coughing randomly, im in the computer lab &amp; idk if i should even go???
were probably just doing notes, which you can get from someone
sounds like a plan to me.



sim city exactly. they want to force demand and development around choo choos. it wont work because we arent lab rats. #tcnt
look around the blue, green and northstar lines. it is already happening.
there is a long, long way to go. plus the bond market risks. then the other question is, is it even ethical?
why isn't this the same for road construction? it's all social/civil engineering. shouldn't pretend otherwise.
with roads its very easy to determine if you are supplying what is wanted, not forcing it.



if you fux with olivesi dont fux with you
you're a food scrub aren't you?
i just can't stomach them, i literally gag at the smell.
fair nuff dude but which olives have you tried? some olives are crapty af.
that's a good point, i'm not really sure. usually just whatever is offered or on something i accidentally order.



i think all pro sports should be like wrestling, where certain regular season games become title defenses where the trophy can change hands.
cavs-knicks would've been like the monday night raw after wrestlemania.
which leads to an all-star weekend royal rumble, where one player from each team competes in a giant game of 21 for the nba championship 
this is the best idea
.



really got my eye on this dude friend i used ta fw 2 years ago,  screw em that crap wasn't crap obviously. might be pushing the issue seen
that's ova wit i kno who yu talking bout and he off limits 
, bitttt who ?
black nigga with dreads  west side
i just diedddd , right on track but he a older cat 



drone or mac desktop?!?
desktop 4 sure, bc what u gon do w drone footage rn? smh
sister 
if u get a drone i'll edit some crap
starting a movie crew? lol



seeing all the sorority houses with halloween decor really buffs my holiday spirit
wait which houses have you seen?
wtf idk just look for the greek letters lol
you should decorate! isn't sheena doing a carving pumpkin thing?
i'm so busy rn tho d:



there's a hold on my account so i can't enroll for clbuttes... and i only have 2 days to do it smh
emergency contact?
yes!!! but i'm not the only one.. a few of my other friends from cal poly said they updated a week ago and its still there
no it's like everyone:/
that's so annoying..  do you have priority?



you up
nah, tweeting in my sleep 
oh same also i'm coming through to indiana soon come hang out
yes! 
how far are you from iu?!



worst decision dunkin ever made was dropping the french roll
ciabatta fire too
yeah but the turkey bacon cheddar on the french roll with the sauce is the ultimate dunk sammich
old af tho bro
big and toasted is old af bro that thing is ancient



match anyone ?
 screw matching let's go get some grub 
you in 500?
you know that 
come out



live
i got u
oh yeah you have $3,000 
maybe
we're poor but it's nice to dream



i hope everyone registered to vote on time 
only if ur on the ballot
you can write me in! lol jk. but did you?
if there is i'm doing it idc,&amp; haha of course once u register once you registered forever since i voted for obama last time
no vote clinton! haha okay good 



kd really messes up the warriors chemistry
i agree. but it took the 2010 heat a month or two to look in sync.  so ima wait this one out before i say for sure
that's different tho... they didn't have 4 guys that are gotta put up 20 a night and 3 guys that take 20 plus shots a night
but....lebron......lol
lol lebron what? 



chapped lip season......my favorite.  #overwinteralready
me too. and i'm on medication that has "dry chapped lips" as a side effect, so i get a double whammy this year 
omg!!!  load up on chapstick!! 
omg i have so many different ones! and lip scrubs and masks. it's terrible already lol
i feel so bad for you. i cannot imagine!!!! i bet coconut oil would help too!!!



it's 4:50 in the morning and i'm soo unbelievably irritated with myself bc i drank an energy drink at 9 for no dang reason
what were you thinking lol
i was trying to hang out and actually be social when everyone got home from closing ;p
well i mean, you can't be mad because those were some good intentions lol
but larry didn't even hang out with us so for me it just resulted in a headache &amp; upset tummy 



okay social media ethical types i have a conundrums i want to post something to point out obvious racist symbology and semiotics
i don't want the pain in my mentions or a pile on on this person but this crap looks like a cross btw rand/riefenstahl/ and the first myst
never mind read the tl and do not care no more
perfectly reasonable to say "here. this is problematic. figure out why."  you can't spoon feed us logic all the time.
it's a pop quiz for us. if we are paying attention to what you say at all, we should be able to get it. you're awesome.



warriors gotta 4 game losing streak... don't sleep 
you're childish 
it's facts bro lol
haha i know
lol i can really into deep details 



the cops hate andrea man
what happen
not just one cop, but two got her azz
omg whyyy lhh
snapping and driving, swerving all over the place, speeding  must i go on



wow i've gotten 9 tattoos this year i need to be tamed
lemme tame you
doesn't sound fun
i can make it fun
i mean in that case maybe



wonder how mad my mom would be if i just came home with a cat 
she'd tell you to keep it in the barn
true
bc we both know it would end up being hers bc you wouldn't clean up after it 
not true



i really want to like my reisaru week fics but i feel like they aren't as good as i want them to be meh
i'm sure they're great! it sucks that you feel that way though i hope you'll eventually like them!
thanks girl &lt;3 idk i just am like feeling weird about it!!
that's normal but it'll all be worth it once you post them and people give you the good feedback you deserve!
i hope people like them!! i'm just excited to be finished soon!! ahh



ok so last night me &amp; my girl were playing around and she told me to stop it so i was like "bish y" &amp; she replied with b/c i'm smilin
so hard it's hurting my cheeks
my lil jasmine is the cutest thing ever
u guys make me so happy
u make us so happy &amp; sup proud 



so far, my experience with spacemacs hasn't been very positive.
one of the things i like about vim is that you don't have to do a bunch of configuring to be productive. spacemacs doesn't feel that way.
can't decide if like that as soon as it recognized i was in some file type (ruby, html, etc), it wanted to download syntax libraries for me.
i mean, i guess it's cool that it has a bunch of approved libraries that don't come pre-installed but it tries to get them upon relevance.
this happens on ubuntu too, right?  if you type `git` on a fresh install, i believe it recommends installing git.



warriors big are soft. warriors gotta fill the center position
that's why trade klay thompson for demarcus cousins
nope
why not.!?
just cause



new projection show at the magic kingdom just in time for wine &amp; dine race weekend!  nice!
saw this.. sounds epic!
agreed!  great use of the technology!
thinking main st area will be even more slammed then it is for wishes
totally true..



i have a maple butterscotch wax melt in my apartment and it smells soooo good 
yum
you can taste my wax melt?
yes
interesting 



anything good on netflix i havent seen?
black mirror!!!
not sure why, but im super reluctant to watch that
your missing out
 ill give it a try



accidently clocked in 15 minutes early and then went and slept in my car...
"accidentally"
no seriously didn't even look at the clock lol just punched my numbers in and scanned my hand.
lmfao clearly you needed the nap
i got to work wayyyy too early. lol



was literally about to tag you in this but you are the person who retweeted it 
i was gonna tag you in it when i retweeted it but was like nah he'll see it on fb  that dude was killing it all night
spurs might be good this year 
what'd i tell you 
pop's the 






you still in the city?
yeah bro just got back
got a session tomorrow in the heights, come through
fasure what time



i just may have to accept defeat this time.
defeat?
cosplay defeat. i don't think there's any possible way i can finish everything even if i work as hard as possible
nix the bow? what's left? also, at least we can party hard in casual cosplay.
nah everything is in about a half status and it's just not promising. casual cosplay may be the thing!



midterm #7 today

learn how to find the limiting reagent little boy.
easy work.
not for you



who's up
yo
sup am slayer
h1
i'm pooped maybe later or tomorrow



had i known domino's doesn't deliver to my new house i wouldn't have moved here
wtf why!!!
i literally just moved to a new townhouse!
omg no way! where at/why?
still in college area, down by target. serenata town homes! i'll tell you next time i see u 



today is the day i get to open the new bag of coffee beans and i am very excited.
half the time i can't tell if i have an immense capacity for enjoying the little things in this world or i just totally need to get a life.
it's just that the beans smell so good.
definitely the bean-smell. i myself am a clandestine bean-sniffer.
well now you made it sound dirty, david



i dont know why ppl study geometry
loool i like trigonometry tho
i like algebra.. complications ..im good at that
algebra is love
replace pizza with algebra



 screw it up for the hood doeeee 
do ya dance for the hood doeeeee 
haaaaaaaaan 
lady shaggy oh wuuut
lady kriket oh whaaaaaaaaa



i told you to hold that crap down
you can't just hold it with d
yea i saw the pick at the end of the game
they still won't make it to the playoffs  and we still have the #1 win streak
navy sec fo lost?



i'm about to say something here about #parenting and #life and you might have to stick with me for a minute.
i've been having some mental health issues since nola was born and you could say i'm not living my best life.
but nola is a "perfect" child. not really i know, but she's smart and cute and everyone immediately falls in love with her.
and i want her to look cute in her clothes because i don't.
i forgot where i was heading w this bc i got distracted but i know clothes particularly are a battle w kids sometimes



oh cool  #isles fan bashing by montreal media. gosh,  screw these entitled pricks
say what now?
attendance bashing
attendance has been pretty awful though. slow octobers are nothing new.
its every year no uptick til december



bruh most females be for everybody i've come to terms that's just how it is outchea
um no lol
uhhhh yes
there is a difference between a girl and a woman tho
i'm aware that's why i said females i'm talking all ages 



if any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. (1 cor. 3:18) #atheism #bible #gosh
yes your religion's hatred for intelligence, which sees right through it, is well known.
starting out the day being that judgmental can't be good friend.
says the judgemental one who views others as fools.
i haven't judged you. i quoted scripture. what happened was you read it and judged yourself. that's how the holy spirit works



both meulin and nepeta are good. i kinda like meulin a bit more but i couldn't choose a favorite
kankri is cuter and more interesting than karkat
stupid cat
cats eat birds better be careful, tubby
you don't know anytjing. fool .



hi lady ... how was your first night back at work???
it was good deb, thankfully my work is mental, not physical, plus they hired 2 new girls 4 my shift, so it's easier, less alarms
yay!!!! i'm soooooo happy for you 
feels good 2 be back &amp; not sitting on my butt at home. now i'm sitting on my butt &amp; getting paid for it, lol thanks deb, how r u? 
lol i can imagine it is very nice for you!! i'm great....just enjoying the  &amp; my cubbies in the world series finally 



lucid dreams are just awful
i had sleep paralysis for the first time over the weekend. it was spooky
3sooky5me
i just remember hearing like something making noises behind me and i couldn't move and was like shaking
yeah its pretty bad man usually you have ways to wake up



wow, this furore over the esc keys removal might last almost as long as the one about the headphone jackanyone remember that?
i don't think the headphone jack thing is going away. it's completely changed my future phone choice.
im certain apple wont change it back. so tell me: whys the included adaptor not good enough?
put simply: it's not user centered, at least to me. unless you want to look cool, wired earbuds are easier/cheaper/not easily lost
it still comes with wired earbuds in the box. (and if you want to use your own, theres an adaptor in the box too)



easily taking money line eagles this week
lets bet then 
20 straight up?
yea
bet no fraud crap



call me to talk #tinyhouse
called
called back
do you still have plans to use the tiny house
yes. i'll talk about it with my boss today.



got my back on this one #inkmaster 
good thing he doesn't listen to dark matter yet ... "snacks up your butt ..."  (hope everything's ok though) 
i am a bad mom. asked him why not up his butt? he says eeewwww poop comes out of their?  #paininthebuttchild
my daughter lol'd on the floor 
on our way back he apologized for the marble up his nose &amp; for almost making mommy poop her pants &amp; almost pbutting out 



2l of heem, 1l of jger, might grab big boi grey goose too...that should be good right?
not a pre game anymore...more of a party 
we got peeps coming lol. plus my friend kyana &amp; amanda they're staying at the same hotel &amp; they got drinks as well
hahaaaaaaaa we getting  screwed 
*sideways



some nigga just dove in my dms trying to pay my tuition
you're tweeting this like you told him no
i didn't respond 
craptt i'd pull up on that offer lol
*keeps fafsa money*



that heart dropping moment you read about a murder on the same black as your parents live. then find out it was right next door.
i think you meant block.
when my phone is racist. 
all jokes aside, is your family okay?
there was this incident. and earlier this year my brothers house had a stray bullet hit 6 feet from his head.



the ultra boost goshs answered my prayers 
the next roshes
chill that's the nmds 
boosts next
no way dawg. comfort never goes out of style



the mandela effect surrounding hannibal lecter in media is weird sometimes. like, he was never cool. he was always a nerd. who eats people.
"nuh-uh!" says that one dude i always run into w/ a anthony hopkins facemask t-shirt. "maybe in the show, but not in the movies!" uh-huh.
yeah, fullerverse hannibal was a nerd who went to fancy-jail for 3 because a boy wouldn't go out w/ him, but we saw the same movies, dude.
and in the books, hannibal lecter had six fingers on one hand and red eyes. he was a cartoon villain and an even bigger nerd. i can't even.
so like...does inego montoya ever get his revenge for hannibal eating his father?



swear to gosh if emma ricard sends me one more picture of her tits
why complain my dude
i mean they nice but dang
ungrateful  screw
 i'm blessed



i really hit amanda's car lmao. i'm going back to bed
you're kidding...
nope lmao. she's not mad though and it's not that bad.
gosh love you omg
it's been a rough week lmfao.



i'm so excited for this saturday
and speaking of, does anyone want to go for a hike on saturday morning? please be advised that i am in no shape whatsoever.
i'm going too, ia! :)

what? i really am. be happy for me. 



i kinda feel like playing bo3 but it gets boring playing solo
i'll play with you!
psn??
dang! xbox 1 
i have a xbox1



. ask me anything about a walk to remember.
what is "a walk to remember"?
it's my greatest work. it's about a man who finds a vampire and interviews him. there are other vampires also.
oh wow sounds like a winner!
it's really good, mate. lots of biting. lots.



im tryna b white girl wasted sos
uneed to be white girl studying bye
hmm 
what have u done so far 
ive written 4 essay outlines fuk u



sure are a lot of goaltending experts out there, not to mention the "i have a friend who was a ducks fan and he said...." comments.  hahah !
so, you're a big freddie fan eh? cool. have fun with that. i like good goal tending.
lazy chirp.
watch highlights. he plays now just like in anaheim. also, see carey price as an example of good. this ain't that. not close.
carey price is elite.  if you are looking to replace bernier with carey price, good luck with that.  .915 % career. .851% here.



are you at sector conference? hope your sector discussion going well
, i'm actually here at the conference!
i'm only here for part of this morning, say hello
we can also connect through pm here on twitter, or tmaguire.org
perfect!  i'm just kind of at the back tables.



it my mutha screwing birthday idiotes 
happy birthday come smoke this blunt 
thank you  when ? 
wya rn?
out east



hi
call
no monitor
i meant on ur phone
no phone



good morning gentlemen. i hope that y'all have a wonderful day.
thanks adam. you too!
and watch the entire oklahoma/texas tech cfb game from last saturday night.
i guess i could but i really don't have time. sounds like no defense was played. lol
that's true. i'm currently watching it. no defense was played but lots of records were set.



i have 2 different interviews this week and if both go well i don't know which job to pick 
flip a coin
will prob make a pros and cons list for each after my interview friday
or you can make a twitter poll
i would have to let twitter know all the pros and cons so they can make an educated decision



so, so you think you can tell heaven from hell, blue skies from pain.can you tell a green field from cold steel rail?a smile from a veil?
i have a pt that shaves his eyebrows &amp; reminds me of the wall.... #psychissues
oh wow! that film still gets me. been in my head because of the election and how close trump is to being a fascist.
it's a clbuttic for sure! a clockwork orange too! those 2 movies' metaphors sum up all of my fears for this country!! 
yea it's roger waters and kubrick territory and it freaks me the  screw out!



we need political efficacy tests at polling stations. if you fail you can still vote, your vote just counts as 3/5 of normal peoples'.
then we're going against the voting rights act of 1965. that would be discriminating people because they're less knowledgeable.
so we need to change the law then.
no, because then we would be going against our founding principles. ya know... equality and natural born rights?
the trade off is that we have people who are actually educated voting. that is actually exactly what they had in mind.
there is no trade off when you are taking away people's rights, especially something as crucial as voting.



my family has been talking so much crap bc my hair is red like vallanse alv pinches envidiosos 
haha
pendejos lol
no les hagas caso
i cussed everyone out i need jesus
omg fr?? dangnn lol



it's funny how you hate sports and cleveland so much but yet you can go out and try to celebrate everything that's going on. fake.
what i been saying in my head all day about mbutt people tho
it's ridiculous
i saw people who a few months ago posted about how baseball is sickening to them, post "go tribe!" &amp; "world series!!" today 
 i guess it just comes with the territory
coach francola though 



it's this one grandma looking butt idiot that always looking at me weird i be so confused 
go to sleep 
girl fr i b wanting to know wtf is the reason for the looks tf
 that's all mfs do down here is stare , have you thinking it's sum on yo face like dang
girl i b giving them the stank look or i b like wbuttup  but this idiot i just b lost like ..
 she in yo clbutt or something?



back to reality....
i had no idea getting back to reality would be this difficult!  #takemeback #nkotbcruise2016
im going to guess this is your 1st cruise .... its going to be rough lol
you are correct! regardless of how miserable i feel, i can't wait to do it again! 
this was 8 for me and #pcd (post cruise depression) is sorta like pregnancy brain you will forget all about it &amp; do it again
lol!  you're my hero!!!! 



as soon as this color fades or after halloween its going back ...uhuh color isn't for me anymore ! bye 
what you gunna be?
bulma from dbz :)
sweet!!
yes :) he he dantes going to be goku ^.^
aww that's cute. i can't wait to see



is kawhi still a system player? i'll wait.
you know they play 81 more games right?
they're 0-1 though. if they would have won though...
personally i would have said the same thing. 81 more to go.
1-0 bruh. no excuses. it's 1 game, but the league is on notice.
on notice? . hopefully your bench plays the majority of the minutes. u have the slowest starting lineup in the nba.






yay! i haven't watched last night show yet. but i'm super psyched.
it was really good. i'm loving #supergirl so much this season.
i've loved it too. esp tyler as superman. just which there wasn't less cat. hope calista returns often.
i agree. tyler is amazing as superman. i hope cat does come back often. that last episode with her, oh my gosh tears.
okay, i watched it &amp; i'd much rather kara be w/ mon el than james. 



i get the feeling that nintendo isn't on schedule for nx. i just feel they'd be willing to tell us more if they were.
then again only nintendo knows what nintendo is doing.
they may just be trying to build intrigue. they're could be teasing us along. to build hype.
but there's a danger there of not delivering on the hype. if you're gonna do this it has to be worth it.
once all the games and release date is announced, go hardcore on ads and have a superbowl ad
is nintendo cool enough to make a superbowl ad?



this is a friendly reminder that removing stuff like cd player, esc keys, headphone jacks, etc is not innovation.
. also people in 3rd world countries still use things like cds and headphone jacks because it's more accessible and affordable
arguably those people don't use the latest macbooks. i'm sure they've done their market research and know their customer.
hmm i meant more if someone from 3rd world who can afford to get a mac and tries to use it with other people...
...then that person will run into problems.
for example, i bought the macbook with a cd player because everyone back home still uses cds



power tripping and changing answers mid way through the event
and they kicked my friend cus she glitched sigh
sort your fansites out!!!
yeah its acc ridiculous, now she cant get back in :(
omg they are threatening to kick if we use answers that are on a guide omg im dyinggggg
lool what the actual  screw!?



kevin love
aye bruhh uu gotta let your man kno who win between the spurs and warriors
bruh you know the answer to that warriors
ii got 10 on dat game wit dis nigga at my job but uu kno dey might choke for my money
you lost that 10 bruh
smh what ii tell uu dey sum chokies



this is a tragedy i will fight who ever shut their wonderful account down
what happened
someone reported the account i guess
it's still up tho?
it is.
just cant go on it



if my moms still ask about you then you was a real one
yeah she be blowing up my line
jean be blowing my crap up
 she don't like a bum butt nigga
unless they 2500 we don't  screw around with no glbuttes
big dawg them billy butt stones in yo frames



got home in time for shining star ;;
i was  screwing thinking how it'd be good if you were here ;;
aww bb i miss you ;;
sameeeee ;; good you're here ;;
it /feels/ so, so good to be here 
ahhhhhh t____t



i killed a mouse today!  
yay, you great hunter. ive killed lots of lizards and bugs but never a mouse.
i don't know what the mouse was thinking??  why come into a house with 2 ferocious felines??
im sure that was his last thought, mol.
if there are anymore of em juliet &amp; i will hunt them down &amp; kill them &amp; their families. after a snack &amp; a nap time of course. 
well, yes, its important to keep a clear view of our priorities.



what to do?
right there at jack theres some chicken strips and fries you think you can drop some off? can i pay u with trident gum
i'm shhleeep
lol hella dumb pick me up lets mob to sf
yea right now omw
im fr though



and them drugs come in handy, last name hendrix but no i'm not jimmi...
told you. 21 guy.
yeah trash.
you say that now.
shout out kodak black
never (josys voice)



feels so good starting to own everything and paying everything yourself. #justgotmyowncarinsurance
how much do you pay if you don't mind me asking i just got my own too lol
well my first payment was 178, the rest are 153 a month. and eyyy nicee
nice what insurance do u have?
how much you pay? i got geico
at first i paid 178 and then it was $146 a month. but then out of nowhere they raised my payments to $300 



my best romantic relationships are the imaginary ones i have with women on twitter. not sure if that's sad or a good thing.
seems like you could do better. 
so you think my imaginary twitter relationship with sarah is doomed? 
dunno who that is, so i cannot speak to that.
thetigersez. 
i don't know what this is



i love the work my spurs are putting in. #gospursgo
spurs will still be good this year as well
i know it's just the first game, but they put on a clinic
easy mike don't get ahead of yourself
i'm just very excited by what i saw last night
without bumcan they may be better



that phone call just made my week, thanks nick
come visit me at westminster sometime!
hit me up when you are free!!!
what are you doing tomorrow afternoon??
working:/
what about this weekend?



#thisisus
what part
the scene when kate and toby discuss watching football with jack
you mean the fact that jack is dead
yep
wasn't there something with her dad being named miguel also



i wonder if swift is important part of apple's car work. the stability concerns make a lot of sense for mission critical systems like cars.
ergg, skeptical of this one. many mission-critical systems are written in c or similar.
swift itself ain't that stable.
i don't think the programming language is the utmost concern with problems like these.
and  i'd be surprised if apple was using swift for anything like that at this point given how the syntax continues to change.
the argument that preventing subclbutting would prevent a car crash is really tenuous.



11:11
i wished for a boyfriend .
it won't come true now cause you said it.....
prolly wasn't going to anyways :/
it's cool imma be a single pringle too so just love the crap outta it 
cool we can get through it together :-)



looking for the dodgers game on my tv guide...
did you dvr it??
must have missed it... they play again soon right?
yeah yeah, they kick the season off in april!
oh the same time the orioles play again!! perf!!! i secretly miss you
i knew you would  it's okay though because i definitely miss you.



i wish i had friends that would be down to chill or go on adventures at this time
i don't see an invitation in my messages????
"i have two papers due tomorrow each 1,000 words"
that was then, this is now  screw you gn
let's do something then dude
pick me up



1:10 am and tempted to eat these hot cheetos 
do it.
suppose to say no geo c'mon...
but.... hot cheetos are life?
geez.. why are you so right ??
aren't i always! lol jk



white girls singing about "niggers" stealing shouldn't have had to face any repercussions? .....
nope bc evidently it was 1) a famous vine they repeated 2) there was no malicious intent 3) it was all freaking jokes
they're not 5 year olds. them repeating what they heard isn't an excuse. it does not matter if there was malicious intent.
on that note you're absolutely right. but ppl fail to realize the intent of the video.. ultimately it's not that deep, people
a term used in the way that nigger was, is dense.
i agree to disagree sis 



way too much for my own good and he needs to visit my butt asap" tweet
luv u boi
&amp; i might hit the peoria date but 4sure lansing show!!
boi
and we'll wil out per usual
i'm sure we could work that out!



to update you on jamie herrington she has stated she took cough syrup which gave her the positive test. #wmma
interesting, if that is truly the case i swear nothing is safe anymore
it's a similar case to what jessica rakcozy went through a few years back.
i hear ya, while everyone is quick to cast judgement lately i have been holding back especially seeing how there can be screw ups
glad jamie came out with her side right after it was announced. hate to speculate what happened.
same, i really hope we haven't entered an era where we really have to question fighters and the labs for the truth



the warriors have 11 points off their bench. just run durant with them? he still gets his shots, and you don't mess with the top 5.
i don't think that would appeal to kd
how bout start with first 5 minutes then run two stars at a time for the rest of the first 3 quarters? there bench was turibl
i think klay should be the person on the bench if anyone
i think that makes sense, but i wouldn't want to mess with the team from last year's chemistry
i would. golden state: 



psa: attending escape 3 consecutive years makes you a real raver.
lol wut.. 3 years?  the og's go back to 2012
2011 or mm
we started in 07 lol
started in 2010! better than 2013 tho 
as long as you don't use the term real raver you're good 












(ccap, iss, detention)
miss food fights at lunch
i miss throwing food at people we didn't like.. our "trash shoot"



bluffed seeing ye on my birthday. might gotta fade this joint in december
take me with you
we should fade 
you know i'm with it fr, just let me know when you getting the tickets
 screw around and grab them next week fr lol
we'll see how my funds looking friday lol how much are they?



jack in the box or subway 
jack in the box is that late night go to for me lol
lol will do
unless you already made your pick then it is what it is.
i went to jack like half an hr ago lol
oh yuuuup, but what did you get though?



mfs annoying i'm just tryna get this jeep and keep it moving
a wrangler ?
sahara yeah
might as well get the rubicon and keep it moving lol ...they both cold but yea
it's just so hard to get either one 
they got em on like scottsdale road and mcdowell ... but they charging like 40k instead of 37



coffee
mines almost gone already. and i wanna cry.
on my second cup 
omg i hate you
i love you bebe 
lol i do love you too meh


















gm y'all #worldseries time 



the fact we let this nigga slide with 30 lates is absolutely beyond me either
i was late every single day for 6 years. lol.
lmao are you serious omg did they never write you up?
like once, but i was their best employee. they never actually did anything 
 that's his reasoning he was like "im your best" and i was like bruh you were on your final warning what do you expect?!
the difference between him &amp; i: i was told i was the best employee and that's why my inability to be on time was overlooked



eating #keto is so much fun when friends who know you're on a "diet" see you order a spinach salad w/ steak/eggs/bacon/avocado/extra cheese.
haha mmm, sounds tasty, makes me want to eat "keto" as well &lt;
it's a tough adjustment (i still falter), but it can be an amazing lifestyle change.
well hang in there then, i have faith in ya!! i really should eat healthier tbh  i need to check that out, idk much about it
thanks! it really helps that i feel amazing when i adhere... but it's not for everyone. feel free to ask questions!
well thank you! hmm, i did a brief search on google before i went to work today and it said, "low carb diet," care to elaborate?



not going out this weekend my body hurts
this weekend is 
turn up for me lol
with* 
. awwee crap lol i thought you had someone
i do but it doesn't matter 



welcome to buffalo wild wings, where we're out of boneless and honey bbq...
don't be that customer lol
nope....legit, i was that employee.  and was dead serious too.  we're out until thursday &gt;_&gt;
wait you worked here too? lmaoooo
lol yup...with the absolute best management  /sarcasm
i actually don't mind it i've worked for  screwin hitler soooo



ain't no fun unless errrybody can get some!  i can't wait to be an investor! #theprofit
#notimelikethepresent
how?? i don't have any money to invest! 
first invest in the book rich dad, poor dad. second, set aside 10% of every paycheck every time. pay yourself first!
good morning! up reading "rich dad, poor dad" again...i had such a different mindset when i read it the 1st time! let's see!
you can do it!



if i transfer money from my bank to my paypal, will that show on my pp immediately but not my bank? says 3-5 business days help
guys this is serious tryna by my bbuttnectar ticket yo
dang, i had an extra one i would have just sold you!
aw man!!! are you gunna still be there!?:)
yes! but i'm going to the grand rapids nights, not peoria. is that the one you're going to?
omg lucky you!!! yes it is:)



november is gonna be lit! traveling every weekend... arky game, medical school interviews in al and iowa, lsu game, fsu game. i'm excited! 
i lived in iowa for awhile when i was younger.... iowa city is decent, cold as crap in the winter... super freakin cold.
i've never iowa. never visited, never traveled through, nothing. the school i'm interviewing at is in des moines.
it would be a big adjustment for sure. i'm a florida baby. i would need like a life clbutt on snow, ice, frozen pipes, driving...
yeah.. its alot different... and snow is on ground from like november thru march... feets of it... lol
my interview is november 14th so maybe i'll get to see snow!?!  



"jordan doesn't like anyone, he only tolerates us because he works with us".".
that's not true. you loved rodney.
the only thing i loved about rodney was his aid in developing the mcdonald's theory, regarding dating optimization.
"honey dip"
this rings no bells.
that's what you said when you spoke in his voice. or something similar. but i probably got it wrong, like everything



i swear disney movies are the best
how old are you? 10?
21. lion king still my favorite movie all time
mines blood in blood out guess we don't relate
that's a dope movie too. la primera lives
yea lion king pretty cool with simba and crap



if you've never taken a plan b yo pussy trash
i beg to differ !!
so u telling me every nigga that swam in it successfully pulled out... you ma'am are a liar
well naw i wouldn't say that but i ain't need no plan b either 
you must got some military issue birth control 
nope. gosh just got my back. that's my homie



never realized how much "action green" i have in my wardrobe. don't judge.
bruh?
i'm a ginger!
i know, but .... still ...........
green is awesome! i was always meant to be a seahawks fan.
i stick with the blue....



i'm so happy today i didn't even talk crap to my bf about his beloved warriors getting blown out last night
how on earth is your bf a warriors fan? i hope he's from there..
he is from there and moved here little over two years ago for work haha
haha okay, then he is a good man.
he just so happened to move here as cle sports (sans browns) are taking over the universe so it works well.
haha it's amazing, isn't it. what a time to be a cleveland sports fan.



december 5th, 9th, 31st 
dec my birthday 
mines the 31st
we up next
can't wait 
you and me both



mac millers album is really great. i really like "the divine feminine"
stay is over of my favorite cuts off that album.
i was actually listening to it when i made that tweet..i was like enough is enough..this album is too smooth
def underrated, i was impressed had never listened to mac before this.
me neither..however i'm not gonna double back and go through his discography lol
lol we aren't. he's just on the radar now



i want to go to a game in edmonton more than anything.
i will 1000% join you
i would sell my soul to the devil to go ... i would walk there shshsh
when do nyr play there
november 13 :c
ok when else can we go



hi daive - i would enjoy providing you with seahawks news and analysis #gohawks
wouldn't everyone
don't know - just asking - i just love them and tweet about them without any hidden thought / interest
well my bad man. i'm garnering a lot of bs social media attention as well as the... not bullcrap?
i'm just retweeting the best of the seahawks beat writers, players and bloggers and giving some own thoughts as well
honestly as a person who's nearly about to start doing the same, can we telecommunicate? you know the phone call way?



i'm such a crafty/creative person, that when i don't do anything creative i feel sad. and i want to do so many things but can't decide
let's be like old ladies and start quilting
i know how to knit. lol. and i have a sewing machine so i'm down 
loll okie. 'tis quite satisfying
i still need other stuff to do though 
idk, quilting is time consuming af lol but a cooking clbutt or art clbutt or something? i would die. it sounds so fun



i wanna get to the money 
we finna get us some gfs bruh 
chief i done got me one 
 when this happen

i can pull down there and wake the block up



ffx had one of the best video game soundtracks ever. hands down.
i must agree with you!
right! ffvii is a close second. after ffx-2 i didn't care much for any other soundtracks though. the series fell off for me.
ffvii is iconic so definitely and anyone that's a true fan of ffx knows that ffx-2 was a disappointment lol
about dang time they make a remake of ffvii, too. goshddd, wasn't it? i still played it because i didn't waste $50 for nothing 
really tho it's only taken  a decade lol, but yeah i'm over here waiting for ffxv to drop. then it's rip lyfe



let's go, cubbies!  hey!  they were always my second team of there is any such thing being as big of a braves fan as i am...
i always had that wgn connection for the cubbies and the bozo show.  ha!
hey, haven't had a chance to talk to you since that butt whooping you guys put on arkansas! color me impressed
oh yeah.  i was beside myself.  totally didn't see that one coming.  they're looking good, though.
i don't think anyone did. y'all indeed look better each week.
yep.  i couldn't be happier about the progress in seeing on offense.  the defense is just nasty!



another 11am kick..  you jinxed it a few weeks back!
 i take it back lol
too late! watch.. last home game vs tech gonna be 11am too
that'll probably depend on our win this weekend. but the way our season's going right now, i wouldn't expect anything else 
hey now!!! we totally beat kansas that says 2:30 kickoff right?!
 beating kansas should mean we get prime time @ 6:30



says water like "wudder"
fight me i can't help it
your 2 ft away from me ...hit me 
you're* and i wasn't even 2 feet
hate you ..
no you don't



don't call my phone about somebody else man!
got da juice 
i really don't charel 
foh
smh it's too early for this
never too early



everyone says senior year is so easy but i have more work then i have ever had.
you're doing it wrong then
whaaaatttt
i had sooo little work to do senior year
i have soooo much homework every night
the most homework i had would be whenever i wrote a speech for public speaking &amp; non-fiction writing other than that nothing



sooo.... did everyone on uapb campus tv's loose signal?
girl yeah.
well idk but mine did
my ls at the jbj said she did too
some people at the plex too
smh only uapb



wya
: our regular school , they said i had to take 2nd part of fsa
oh ok you taking it now or afternoon?
: now , while i.m here
the next one in the afternoon right? when yours start?
: uuuhh , i think soo &amp; mines started at 8.



what's the gender neutral equivalent of calling someone daddy or mommy in a kinky sense 
good question i wanna know so i can effectively kinkshame non binary ppl as well
bug mama 
"insectoid parental unit"
give it to me hard, insectoid parental unit !!!
i'm a bad boy!!!



people look at me weird when i stop to hug trees, like as if i'm out of this world. and in that moment, yes, i am.
kid you not intook a course this summer whetr one of the buttigments was to hug the rocks snd trees in cp
that's beautiful! it raises compbuttion, awareness and, i personally feel, it reduces stress.
not gonna lie to you, the lesson went over my head :( but i do talk to trees/ plants lol we're not at hugs yet
i think it's cuz i grew up around a lot of plants. my mom's living room was a mini botanical garden lol plants love to listen 
lol same! its something i carried over into my space too. i have 4 plant babies, want another one.



goodnight everyone 
good night peggy, sleep well &amp; sweet dreams!!! hope you have an easy day at work tomorrow, first day back after vaca 
good morning karen hope work was ok last night sleep well today raging hard and cold here 
good morning, try to stay dry. had good night at work, butt hurts from sitting in hard chair, got my pillow, still hurts
now you can sleep and get off hinny. i'm just getting started worked 30 min after i was off yesterday new part time job
what new part time job &amp; why are you trying to kill yourself? 



wish i was rich and didn't work, so i wouldn't have to make this drive every morning at 6:15
hell yea
crap sucks
fr lol it that paycheck be nice lol
that's the only thing getting my tired butt outta bed
trynna tell you lol



nobody can  get me hot like brii do i swear 
man i feel you

borris the only niggah who gets me hot
exactly she the only person that get me soo hot
that's what happens when you get into a relationship. lol



it's 4:50 in the morning and i'm soo unbelievably irritated with myself bc i drank an energy drink at 9 for no dang reason
what were you thinking lol
i was trying to hang out and actually be social when everyone got home from closing ;p
well i mean, you can't be mad because those were some good intentions lol
but larry didn't even hang out with us so for me it just resulted in a headache &amp; upset tummy 
 you will have good karma heading your way!



i think it's time tebow tried another sport. or i mean followed another dream.
i just sat through the last 3 innings of the game with an indians fan that also likes tebow. as in playing baseball 
because why?!
because i was signing a contract with a doula client. and the game was on. and then baseball and trash talk.
lol nooo why does he like tebow the baseball player?
because his baseball ideas are damaged, clearly. lol



love joel armia.  he gives his all. #nhljets
is he finally there? wjhc stud! took some time.
looks like they are grooming him as pk. he's got more offense than half the forwards.
pk? that's garbage. top 9 f easy.
in this group maybe 6.
high end skill. it was the drive that was lacking



i go into work at 8 and i'm no where near being sleepy.
count some sheep lol
it worked lol, and then i had to get up an hour later 
lol i'm barely going to sleep right now when i get out
girl you can sleep for me, i don't get out until 4 today 
lol i'm wired i feel like i'm not going to be able to sleep



for some reason i got like really drunk yesterday
must be nice
i wanna get drunk right now
 screwing same
i think i'm gonna do it tbh
if you ain't got crap to do today gon head



but he was seventeen...
lmao read all these and girl the same always happens to me
when he was talking about his senior year i busted out laughing i couldn't help it i was so stunned
happens to me at work mostly cause they be cute asf then they'll be like "yeah i'm 17 hby" 
 omg. you never know with all these beards
no but really though cause the one i was trynna talk to had a full butt one 



pretty girl with the long hair
where you been, what's over there?
ugly girls stop and they stare 
it's too bad, life it ain't fair

you like 5 ft 2, you got your hair done too?



i wonder on a scale of one to ten how bad a breast reduction hurt ...i want one 
my mommy had one its painful post op of course the worse part is sleeping in a recliner for 3-6 weeks
hmmm im thinking about getting one but yea bc i sleep on my stomach i almost used to wanna cry when i was pregnant lmao
lol the biggest part is keeping them from sweating under the incision so they wont get infected
i want them so small that they won't be able to sweat under anywhere lmao
lmfaooooooooo a full c cousin that's good enough



working these next 8 hours without headphones are gonna be brutal
do you still work at safeway??
yes
are you doing night crew?!
no they got me switching tags
oh crap ok



only sexy people are up
thats why im going to sleep
take yo bum butt to sleep
what fool don't talk to me like that son
your adopted
you right



i actually miss reading books rn. 
i actually miss the crap out of you
aweh vannie! i miss you too. college has been keeping me in my toes and i work on weekends.  i do miss you a lot.
dude same between work and school full time i don't even have time to breathe.
then how are you alive? 
i'm not dude



i wanna dm #oomf to talk about something, but i'm scared.
shoot your shot
, lol nahhhh don't wanna come off weird. have you talked to neicha?
lol you won't! &amp; not recently i meant to hit her up to check on her.. everything cool?
, nah it's not. she'll tell you about it!
 what's going on bro



got a lil excited to wake up and see max and ruby on tv lol
can't even fake, that's the show
nahh like real live 
my mans max be wylin lol reminds me of me 
lmao nah max was too much of a g to be you
wowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww. that is crazy about you



sometimes i just think about all the sadness that has happened in history and i'm like "something has to be done about this!"

we need to turn tears... into action
hmm i don't know it sounds like a lot of extra work
you're right
it's too bad



in the few hours i've had it, i have to say i really like my new pixel. #madebygoogle
if google did that concept years ago when nexus began i'd likely still an an android user.
you might give them another look. it still has a headphone jack at least!
4 androids and problems. 4 iphones now and no problems. plus i haven't had to use a headphone jack since getting the 7 ;)
feeling you for sure. i tried ios once but it just didn't feel right.
yeah i liked it but too little too late to me. i am intrigued by fi thigh too if that could ever work with ios.



ciara left a toxic r'ship, found a new love who makes her glow, married him, now she's pregnant and she's a ho???
future is implicated in breaking up someone's 19-year marriage and he gets props and jokes???
ciara did everything right. after leaving a bad r'ship, she adjusted how she approached the next. she learned, grew, benefitted.
isn't that what those relationship books by oft-divorced men tell women, if they want to find a good man?
didn't ciara "think like a man and act like a lady?" isn't that what y'all say women should do to get the prize of a generous husband?
that is why we should do whatever we want, because no matter how it turns out they'll have a problem with it.



if i ever finessed you and you never did crap about it then you a complete idiot i promise you
lmaoooo i can definitely name... nvm
i already know who you talking bout he a pussy tryna be my friend after i finessed his dude butt, scary butt nigga
 i'm weak, that's a lame for ya!
lame nigga ! promise you
i'm already knowing trust me



troian saying goodbye to keegan on his last day of filming is just too much. so cute!! #spoby #pll 
omg is it back on?
not yet, but i follow ashley and shay on snap and ash filmed them hugging and crying cause they're all done filming tmrw! 
ugh i'm going to miss this show
me too! except for the stupid fake out bullcrap they tried to pull every season lmao
did you get to the mid finale! i mean it gets pretty gory.



for the raids, and everyone who stopped by! y'all rock! ^.~
what game?
don't take it personally babe, it just ain't your story.
its cool. i was just curious if it was available on twitch in the future
that was the name of the game. it's available for free online if you google it. the vod is still on my channel.
gotcha. i thought you were trying to tell me iys something u wouldn't be interested in. lol



#msnbc #morningjoe 2010 teaparty came to blow governance up and they did #trump #bannon coming to blow country up #vote #hrc=critical
all contrived by koch bros. backed tea party, did gerrymandering won state legislatures, governors, etc. won house obstructed pbo!
you nailed it catherine and many of us have not forgotten,dont have selective memory,know cant fix what don't own-hope we prevail
can win senate, beverly. take 25 seats in house. we can prevail! must get out dem vote. can't have tarnished presidency-vulgar man
doing my part as much as can-we must prevail
you sure do each day. thank you for your insights!



can't stand when a gate agent clears one by one instead of going through the whole list till planes completely full.
like the lady in vegas. the one stressing out lol. i just made it home. thank you again boobs.
hahah. glad you made it home safe. did you enjoy the free drinks? sorry i texted late
didn't even drink. it was such a short flight ke they didn't even bother haha. i was just wondering though.
oh haha i was just so ready to plan the minute we took off. i felt so sick smh.
land*






304
214
omg  you didn't get it ?



happy bday! 
thank you lacey! 
miss seeing ur annoying butt
english clbutt was lit 
u still owe me a bag of hot cheetos
i got you 



bored... sleepy... can't sleep...
it's way past ya bedtime
i'm grown nephew
 stop calling me nephew
i'm your aunt
you'll say anything



last night was first night back to work since the hurricane.i'm feeling it. #nurselife
did you have a lot of damage?
i did have a significant amount of damage. still out of electricity..i was loaned a generator this past weekend. blessing!
i'm so sorry, but i am glad you have generator now!! we lost a dock and a boat in the hurricane! downed trees, but no damage to hous
awww cathie.. i hate that.did you lose the new boat?
no! boat at folly is fine!! we lost a fishing boat at hilton head!



that "i just ran down two blocks and up three flights of stairs before 7 am" oh so fresh commuter feeling!
is that a good feeling?
well, it's ok as long as you made your train.
ah i see, good morning btw. hope your day turns out well 
we'll see what my sixth grade decides to do with themselves!  ah well, done. by 2:30, then home to write two papers!
sounds like loads of fun, i kinda miss working in education, kinda don't



ummmmmmmmmm no one else is in my room and two of my books fell off the book shelve 
the ghost from the library followed your butt.
i did accidentally take the keys 
o my gosh you know how long i was looking for them!?!?!
dude i'm totally kidding i didn't take them lmfao
liar lol they're missing lol



42 second ya boi. no warm ups. 2 prior breaths
it doesn't count unless you do it in front of the current champion. myself.
hah! i've been training my ya boi's just for you bro and i want my belt back
step the  screw up i will wreck you poser
i can't wait to beat your butt to a bloody pulp, zesser
wtf it's 7 a.m. you  screwing psycho



just said he wants to poop on the floor wtf 
stop lying !!!
you're so disgusting i swear
that's you foooo all you do is crap all day 
2 can play that game
last time i recall , i didn't pose with my crap 



i am so sick of the daily whining and idioting coming from the trump campaign about the media. they're losing because america rejects him.
when all else fails, blame the media.
95% of the media is against him because 95% of the people who cover him and his campaign every day are disgusted-which seems natural
i wouldnt say that. but its reckless to foment insurrection against the media as an ad hominem.
that too. there are better ways to handle the media than attacking them. i'd give him more credit if he owned his own messes
however, this is why it's wise to perhaps not have this amount of dirt in your past if you're going to run for president



hey
hi friend 
hi how has your night been ?
horror movies with bae so it's been good! yours
that's good . good trying to get myself situated so i can try to watch scary movies with hunter lol
what did you watch 



democrats are lying and corrupt people. the race baiting is getting old, is that the best you can do? lol!
i've read your tweets. put down fox news and pick up a book and then we can chat.
i read the bible, do you?
i live in a country founded on the freedom from religion. put down the bible &amp; pick up the constitution 
this country was founded on christian values, sweetie. read your history
but our laws were not to be made to cater to one religion over another. you read it, sweetie. most of our ff were atheists. fact.



if you like mayo, please unfollow and then block me, you nasty idiot.
but you don't like tomatoes....that's worse.....
tomatoes on sandwiches are crapty. tomatoes on/in other stuff is fine.
that's the worst argument i've ever heard.
blockt!!!
dangnnnnnnn



lol my best friend at the time got cheated on, we wrote on the guys truck..he started chasing us, i tripped and broke my ankle #justmyluck
wtf
it was ridiculous  and i drove with my foot hanging out the window all  screwed up
when was this i'm so confused 
i think my junior year of highschool 
oh haha you didn't specify 



imagine if your brothers' names were something regal like stuart trackington and richard brackinson but your name was michael ringtone
add a name to the list of brothers: scooter woodshed
add another name: whitehouse giftcard
add another name: scott scalpel
the first sister! sarah hereditary
who hurt you?



today i'm following a free beer tapping clbutt offered by university. c:
you should visit me. i'll teach you how to make your own beer. nods
oooh! i totally should. i'll call it "fops lager premium" owo
foxes make ales. you can tell because "ale" and "fox" have the same number of letters.
hmmm, true. but there should also be a wheat beer/witbier made by fopsen.
well, witbier is different. but it's hard to make at home.



thank you bill gates for the creation of the xbox. you helped me find the love of my life. i am eternally grateful  #thismorning
got 2k?
nah i gotta be honest since 13 i've really lost interest in the wwe games "/
what bout nba or madden?
i want to get madden not really into the nba games
only games i play are sports and gta lol



everyone always leaves and reminds me that they didn't think i was enough
go tew bed
ok ok ok i am !!!!!
i literally tweeted u back in the middle of the night and i don't remember doing it lol
#phantomtweet
literally.. 



welp at least eric robinson won't need to file a restraining order this year
did this happen last year?
nah, but i'm aware of 2 players who can't stand a certain someone, and one almost wanted to fight that person at one point.
lol a fan?
nope.
ohhhhhh interesting.



say i don't make you smile, say i don't make you laugh?
you don't
say things don't cross your mind and make you forget 'bout the past????
you're the worst lmao
u didn't say that when .... nvrmnd
why you lyin on twitter for



del rio will take a bigger loss than all the ones his dad took on that field this saturday #goshawgs #beatuf
put money on it gay boy
bet 
$20 and i want mine in penny's so i can throw every last one at you and laugh at you when we beat y'all, again.
49-2-42 still leading the series little boy
y'all sorry not worried about it



will someone please take me to red robin i need a big fat burger in my life
 screw that sounds flame af
i promise you
but i'm broke 
if im not broke neither are you boo 
wow my heart 



hey #openstacksummit attendees. 12 months time the summit is in australia. y'all should take an extra week and visit new zealand...
it takes a week to get from oz to nz ???
if you swim, it does
if i were to try swimming it, it may take me longer than that
can help you out
arm bands  ;-)



ugh!!!
what happened? i feel 4 klay.
...just an off night...they'll have 6 or 7 of these
ok. tell klay keep his head up.
...heel be fine...just one game
. btw u do a great job on the thompson &amp; trudell show.



i have a question about wwe wrestlers, do they dress up in their wwe costumes when they go out?
i'd buttume not but the undertaker was chillin at the cavs game like if someone asked he'd be ready to fight at any given moment
and both girls with him looked like barbie dolls from wwe too idk so many unanswered questioms
one is his wife who was a former wwe wrestler .other one i think is ultimate warriors widow
unfortunately i can't excuse the choice of clothing
no, that was an awful choice of outfits...



happy birthday nick  enjoy 
 jamaurial? thanks .
you spelt my name so wrong 
you disappeared out the blue so i forgot  i tried tho
 we disappeared
no you 



i went to buy coffee without remembering to brush my hair. i did remember pants, so i win there, right?
# screwpants
i knew you would say that. interestingly, the neurologists office requires shirt and sdudes, but says nothing about pants.
so did you wear pants?
today i am. it is chilly out. i like pants. i hope you love me, anyway.
i do love you. but not your pants. 



now im hungry since i stayed up fml
i'm hungry too
im just gonna starve until morning
i'm just gonna go find something since i need to go out anyway
eat 4 me too
i gotchu 



good morning to you and sheldon. hope you both are wellhappy wednesday
good morning denise. we are both doing well. sheldon has napping to do and i have errands to runall is good with your mom?
yes very good she came home. between my sis &amp; me, and nurse visits with rehab. came home saturday. ty 4 asking. good to  from u
so glad she's home. she'll do so much better now. and you'll feel better, rest better. she sounds like a strong lady.
oh my she is. and thank goodness i hope i have even a bit of her strength &amp; perseverance. 
you do     because you came through a dark tunnel and your here, smiling.



ion know why mf don't like me i'm cool af
they just hating that's why
i guess so bruh but my nice butt be tryna give mf the benefit of the doubt cause they will say she always think a mf hating
keep doing what you doing and don't worry bout anything else

always



joey bada$$ - devastated just heard it. new favorite song.
no1 cares
basic
ur basic for tweeting me the same thing u just texted me 
so be it. the people needed to know even if i had to be basic to show them.
i learned to be basic from the best. (you)



you a good one.. what you gotta do at 5 ?
take my brother to work. that drive bout to put me through a test 
coffee will do the job 
lmao i don't drink that  crap nasty to me
i love coffee  well drink some tea then lol
that cold air gone keep my butt up 



0-1 and lost by 29....oh ard
, it's a marathon not a sprint!! the heatles got off to a slow start in their first year too!! i know you remember, 9-8!
lebron does have more rings and mvps than 99% nba combined so i'll take that
, it's too early!!!! #lebronhatestartsinmayjune
congrats and good luck on show. can't be a consistent caller but always listening
thx bro, you better call up!!!



it's been a good one
you still got 10 minutes!
i'm drunk
still! enjoy it, how old now? 22?
25
crap, you old, don't have a quarter life crisis, k!



any body know a demetrius ray allen? i have his school backpack that contained his sdudes.
you know what school he goes to ? take it to the office in the morning 
no idk
dang ...
i know like all it had was his name on some homework
where did you find it ?



fyi,  she's not even my shawty. she's my i wish i could talk to her shawty. 
well i won so @ her
i was talking bout checkers..
nah nah pay up buddy 
dude, my dog took my phone. i wasn't even the one playing!
tell you dog to @ the shawty then



i need lady friends around here that'll do lame movie and wine nights.

yes please!!!!
in on this
when are you guys free!?
sunday nights usually... monday nights usually too.



am i really the only one who thinks that tyler from #teenmomog has turned into a giant butt hat? #teenmom
he's an butthole. lazy. gosh i loathe him.
thank gosh,everyone seems to think he's some kind of saint. he's so judgemental and pbuttive aggressive&amp;his mum isn't much better!
fake, phony, vindictive, manipulative, etc. i can go on forever.
and has 100% cheated on her.
with a dude



welp cs?
let's play cs brother
just got into bed lol
 screw sleep :) let's goooooooo
meh i just got off a 15 hour shift and go back in at 8:30 tomorrow morning
well sir! that's  screwing crazy get some sleep lol



i have written far too many foo[_]s and bar[_, baz]s for a lifetime today. if only my dreams compiled! :( :( :(
making ap do what i want...[err] found   : unit[err] required: cats.monoid[_]now would cats like this as an addition (monoid[unit])?
there must be a term for this besides rabbit holing? abstraction spelunking? i need a better term to keep me awake.
masturbation. that's what my mum told me...
not even mathurbation? really? it's right there. you pac-nw people are so gosh dang coarse! ;)
i guess we just dont meejure up. 



#digpharm
"emotional connections" buttumes pharma getting in touch with and being comfortable with their own, real emotions.
lol - are you saying we all need therapy? (not untrue in my experience)
pharma needs therapy, for sure. i envision pharma as mr. cleaver. you know he loves you, but he's too distant to tell you.
just literally lol'ed in conference hall. 100% accurate.
happy to make the day a little brighter 



bruh where have you been
in my xanax dreams
was here we would take a mf lap 
lmfao a  screwinn lappppp 
yes bro connect w me soon.
hmu my guy 



how to be romantic in 4 words: i ordered you pizza
i have season tickets...
touch
you coming up friday night to the gameday tailgate? we'll be there all night long.
gonna try! depends on what games i cover friday night
we will order you a pie pizza...



lebron triple double to start the season off. didn't expect anything less from the goat
but the lebron stopper ate too
but does he average a triple double for the season???
it's not all about stats. it's the intangibles
do we need to save money to see the lebron stopper too?
i would like that



tomato sauce makes spaghetti taste really good.
no greater fact based truth has ever been revealed on twitter.



do not buy into the conventions about mpb - it is just a bromide for those who are incapable of pulling it off.



hmmm, cupcakes - have an outstanding day!



in a few months, i'll be signed w the same modeling agency as angelina jolie, auditioning for acting roles &amp; going to law school in cali
ummmmm hi hello. tell them bout your big sis hayyyyy
gotchu girl that picture you posted was fyieeeeeeeee
idiothhh put me on i'm not even joking slightly
idiot i know you're not lol i got you babe #gcrap
wtf dick comment did you make &amp; delete it



love how obamacare opponents now feign concern that a fraction of 1% of people will see their premiums increase when the old plan was "die"
"man, this is really  screwed up. i liked the old way better, when the free market allowed for premiums to increase *and* more people died."
yeah, it sucks that some peoples' premiums are increasing, but it's hard to pretend to be upset about that when you think large chunks of...
the population should have literally nothing and should just die or go bankrupt or some crap if they get sick.
sorry, back to crapty puns and baseball tweets
post your outfit



its brick outside
i've never heard anyone use brick like that 
dont judge me linda 
i'm not lmao but is that supposed to mean cold? 
yes maam
 never heard that lol i've heard it be used like "a brick ago"



anthony hamilton the truth.
go to sleep
lol i can't i'm driving 
dang g i hope you coming to get me
that's not till next month
just wanted to see what you was gone say



waiting for someone to give a crap about me
you have a boyfriend
having a "boyfriend" doesn't mean people give a crap?
it should..... or you shouldn't have a boyfriend 
hmmm. doesn't mean anyone else cares about my well being
yikes



mom : don't you wanna stay home with me today ?me : say nomo
wow
mad you gotta get up huh?
man i been up since 5am but i'm off tomorrow 
you gone sleep in tomorrow huh?
sleep in? my girl gone think i'm dead cuz i'm not waking up at all 



everyone at the bar thinks i'm hispanic
but i'm actually just irish and hungarian 
really? you look asian to me
 i think i just look white
well white is a very broad and ambiguous word haha
that's true  i definitely don't look asian or hispanic though



should i drop a single from the album this week? 
i'm actually serious about this
i never see you drop no crap lol
lol i haven't dropped anything serious in a couple years. but i'm fr thinking about dropping something from the album
ight ngh come on now.....that good for me track is dope tho
good looking. i was just messing around on that lol



just had the weirdest interview ever. it's for a interfacilty paramedic position as a side job. heard this company was paying more...
so they call me while i'm at the grocery store. they asked "how long have you been a paramedic?" a: 9 years. then they asked..
you pull up to an auto accident with an unconscious patient but the car is on fire... what would you do? i answered and they asked...
..if i could be at orientation saturday morning lol. i'm like whoa, that was quick. i'm still trying to learn about the company.
they're either desperate or were really impressed. could be a little of both with an offer that quick
yea, they need paramedics bad. they just got a huge contract with a mbuttive hospital system.



social signalling, not meant for use
use signal
nah, and so poorly.
use tor
use signal, use signal.
i use tor



anyone on h1?
lets play cs
game bores me dog, they need something new. something to freshen it up a bit :/
ya maybe i guess
that was like 3 different replies in one
haha ya im weird i know



let's talk about commuter fitness. how do these people go 25mph on an old steel bike with a backpack. is this there only excerise
it takes all the energy i've got to get up central street every evening.
in somerville i used to live in that hill
yeah i live off central just north of highland.
i don't regret moving away from that hill
i love the neighborhood but the location is subpar and that hill ruins my recovery.



 screw the politics i'm trill clinton!!
i'm trillary rodham
trilt chamberlin
trill jackson head coach lol
i'm the tall white center trill perdue :)
ws got mollywhopped by the spurs tonight -- i'm telling you picking up kd was the kiss of death. they won't even win the west bud



i nap like 5x a day
i wish i can do that :(
i literally fall asleep anywhere lol
the only place i really be falling asleep is on the train lmaoo
that's the one place i hate sleeping on ! i feel like i might open my mouth and end up on someone's snapchat
lmfaoooo i feel you  but thats why i usuallh buy coffee in the am to stay awake on the ride but when my day is over im slumpedd af



just knocked my first racist athens frat boy out.  how y'all gone try to jump me cause your girl asked to come home with me?
it's lit!!!!!!!
niggas tried to jump me 
you got jumped by some dudes wearing vineyard vine? lol
so i got up and had 5 people holding me back ( cause i'm black) and i knocked one nigga out who tried to swing on me again 
i should of been out there. i need some excitement lol



congrats to the eagles 
what happened?
you beat the vikings !!
phew!
lol just found out?
yesterday actually



what day are you coming to effie??
tomorrow
im leaving today once i get off work
make sure i have a bed and seat saved next to you!
i definitely have a bed next to us but i'll have to look for two seats by each other! there wasn't any extra by my fam lol
maybe even three seats for blaine



i'm making an alphabet thread. don't make me flop dudes!! (quotes please)
@ a wants to  screw you
@ b wants to slide in dem dms but is too scared
@ c wants to have your babies
@ d has rabies
also accurate



its a quiet day which is a good thing.
good morning pretty girl how are u today girlie?
good hunof course after saying that it was quiet chaos happened lol hope all is good with you
good morning gorgeous how are u today babe?
good. woke up with a headache but hopefully that goes away soon. have a great day 
u too baby



i literally do people favours and cover so many shifts at work and as soon as i want just 2  screwing days swapped it all falls through.
so this is relevant again. someone get me out of this craphole please.
except this time is just two  screwing hours and i can't even have that  so typical
sounds like bullcrap to me
literally every time i wanna leave early, i came in early today so i can leave early and now it turns out i probably can't 
definitely not fair



if she ain't foreign then she boring
ur a fag 
u jus mad cause you aren't foreign 
but i'm still not borin 
i mean 
you were kickin it with me tn you can't say sheit 



. hey celebrity, i just saw your political ad on ch 5! it looked really good. nicely done!
cool. i haven't seen it on tv yet.  
yeah, it looked terrific on my flat screen tv -- even better than on the little tablet.  how fun!
now i'm on the big screen. haha
well ... the little 'big screen' anyway. ha! .... see ya for brunch in a few hours. g'nite.
thank you for letting me know it was on. see ya.



my legs are so sore it looks like i jus  screwed up the butt the way i walk.. lookin like a penguin n crap 
you on some crap patch
u workin
1-5
hmu after
ight



. ask me anything about a walk to remember.
i based the walk to remember on a different walk that was equally memorable. i was with a dame. she probably was wearing a sweater.
?
the saddest thing would be if my books do not make the nyt bestsellers list. second saddest thing is a dead kid
, in the way that other kinds of -porn might also be considered porn?
i am unfamiliar with the word "porn" so i will have to let my lawyers deal with you. but yes.



so all of a sudden it's  screwing winter today?? okay. fine.
girl it's cold but not winter cold.
it was a stupid wind storm when i left my cozy 75 degree home, winter enough for me!!
hahaha. you going to uzi next week?
omg when &amp; where?!! didn't even know he was gonna be here!
yeah on monday! he's gonna be at the portage theater.



your wcw thinks ciara's a ho for having a baby with her husband.
but suppose to stay with a dude that got 30 umf kids and cheats on his fiance while she's pregnant ? 
lol right? people slay me sometimes 
and be mad at russ...for being a step dad..and that's what he's suppose to do 
smh. niggas get in their feelings over people who don't know who the everloving  screw they are.
 wanna be future so bad. wanna be in gucci flip flops and paying child support so bad 



i am so f img  sick of this ignorant treasonous dangerous bigoted sexist monster #trump breaking every rule of civil society and governance
i feel violated by trump every time i have to hear him deny he even knew his accusers-its been extremely emtional
robin i was sexually buttaulted when i was 14 have never spoken of it till this moment it's all come back the humiliation the shame
so sorry for your experience! this whole trump sexual buttault has really gotten me down
thanks and it continues every day we voted by mail then i'm off to pa to gotv in a few days
wow,have a great time!!



the most unrealistic thing about the episode nosedive is that it's public rankings and not ingroup. otherwise it's pretty spot on.
oh gosh, what if no one likes this tweet? what will i be then?
somewhere, charlie brooker smugly taps his fingers together, chuckling malevolently.
he'll never call me out more savagely than dan ashcroft.
have i made you watch nathan barley? it's required brutal comedy viewing.
i have not watched it yet! sounds delightful.



sony will establish sony imaging products &amp; solutions inc., a subsidiary that will be responsible for its imaging products &amp; solutions.
all functions currently held within the imaging products &amp; solutions sector within sony, will be transferred to the new company.
the new wholly owned subsidiary, sony imaging products &amp; solutions inc, will aim to commence its operations on april 1, 2017
world's worst april fool's joke...
april 1st is the start of the fiscal year.
i know, i just couldn't help myself.



committing a sin rn walking around with a run in my stockings 
get some clear nail polish and patch it up
girl ain't no patching this run....this jawn is wide

well you better run to cvs and get some replacement ones
yea ima go to walgreens because i can't look like this all day...and these jeans feel like baby stockings 



i wanna write a new story.
you write ?
of course.
dope, write a deep story about me and my teams come up to success.
you got it! remember you'll need a personal chef.
yes sir, especially at my most lit wedding in the world.



, you think hillary is wonderful. she isn't. but how could you know that? you don't live our lives or know her crimes.
"conservatarian" must mean that you only consume information that comes through chain emails or talk radio.
conservative libertarian. and you must be a hillary fan.
yep. because i don't get my info from chain emails or talk radio.
no, because you believe, however incorrectly, that you think for yourself. i'll bet you even think obama is a great president.
yep. i think he is the best president since the civil war not named roosevelt. because economics exist.



just remembered i was in safety patrol in 4th grade brb i'm about to put that on my resume
lmao omg i remember that 
me and raylph took that crap hella seriously with our like 7am shifts smh
i liked the lunch shifts better, you could be mean and not get in trouble 
omg tf raylph got all their names from the yearbook and was like using their names bruh
and they were like how do u know my name 



someone want to write this essay for me  any of you rad dope feminists??
down
are you really though??
i'm in women and gender studies
okay well it's due tomorrow so you better get to it 
sike, i already have my 4 page reflection on the second wave of feminism due thursday



holy fuddruckers  #americanhousewife #od
what a great episode
yeah it was so funny i tried watching the other show it was interesting
you have to give it a couple episodes it'll grab your heart strings
maybe your right i should give it a few more episodes it felt too clich
yah i like it but i'm a bit of a sappy dude



i "bodybuild" but it seems the term "bodybuilding" is waaayyyy overused now. so i never say it.
i say i lift 20lbs
u lift me when i'm down
that's cause i always got my friends back and pick them up when they need it
that u do compa...that u do 
dude we need to hangout when i'm in town. i'll probably be in town veterans day weekend



haha i just remembered that i served a plate of pasta that had a screw driver in it ????? that was frikin random
"um excuse me miss, there happens to be a screwdriver in my noodles and i'm not too happy about it"
yeah it went a lil something like that... except she was cool with it, ate the screw driver then choked and died
u murdered someone with pasta. i'm calling the authorities.
hey im just serving the ppl their foods!! im not a murderer! just a lil lady doin her job 
u r smol &amp; evil. she asked for pasta and got mouth full of screwdriver.






crap i can't even..making money
i respect it. lmk though
i gotchu bra..i told u ima link with the whole gang
just lmk bruh 
why u up?



if i ever get married and someone decides to propose to their significant other during said wedding, ooooooh, hold me back.
i don't get it
if someone gets proposed to during my wedding
u would be mad ? lol
 screw yeah, why do you need to take the spotlight off the people getting married, that day isn't about you
u knw someone who did that lol



had to block clippy. just couldn't do it any more.
i can't help but feel warmth inside, like i nudged you to do it.
angel on my shoulder!
therefore my q about hours wasted deserves a retweet. maybe even pin that crap. a journalist gives credit where credit is due.
let's not go nuts, here. i was considering it for a while.
yes, no need. already nuts.



do you ever get the feeling that somebody just no longer wants to be friends with you.. so you end up slowly drifting away..
all the time...
the sad reality of it is it happens way to often then it should.
just because nobody picks up the phone.
&amp; it's kinda funny bc everyone is always on their phone. it makes it worst when u realize they're just straight ignoring u.
like i said, my phone number hasn't changed. it's a drag but a part of life.



dunkin needs to stop dudein me and let me start working already.
apply to amazon lol
i did the other day. just waiting for an email or a call or something.
bet - i'm 99% sure you'll get hired too lol it's easy money too $12.25 too start off - after 3 months $13.50
yeah it seems easy lol and that's why i applied
tell dean too apply too lol i work there - it's dumb easy!



finally coming to terms with reality: i am not going to vegas for #phish 
me either.  but i'm doing the 2 night st. louis umphreys halloween instead. 



is doing 2 nights! i'd be there if i lived closer
- but not saturday. #phish #discobiscuits are more my bag.
sweet! you'll have a great time!! moe is one of my favs.



if you update macos to sierra and your external monitor resolutions get completely messed up, just pay $16 for switchresx app. #timeismoney
im confused on this one. why not just change the setting? seems like it would take less time than an app
i even installed the newest version that they just pushed out ... and it didn't fix so i got the app which brought it back.
interesting. ive had so many issues with those apps before that ive given them all up
i would never install an app for something this stupid ... but my options were really small text or blurry text on scaled.
fair enough that makes sense. i guess this is just the 1st time ive seen an app like that actually solve a problem :/



i wonder is my favorite deli shop still open in berkeley
what's the name of it? i'll check tomorrow or thursday
 i don't even remember lol i just know it's off shattuck in the cuts
smh that doesn't help me lol i'm from jersey, idk where anything is
aww you'll like berkeley it's really chill it's a lot of shops there
i'm living in hayward, but i work in alameda so i'm not too far from there



me and coop drinking miller high lifes playing madden ultimate team on his birthday.  screwing bros.
the pumpkin is back!!!!!
had to do it
gonna be back in br for bama game huh?!
you already know!!
uhhhhh roll tide pawwwwllll



to get the success he deserves with his music and to go as far as possible. that's my wish.
thank you alizee :)
don't even say thank you alec, i really mean it. i don't tweet about it but i always wish you the best everytime i can.
thank you alizee :) i love that photo from the show in france. made me so happy
are you taking care of the lookin like a chump book and things we gave you tho?? question i have is how did they ended up haha
it's in my safe so that nothing bad ever happens to it :)



lol @ how many dudes "owe me that pussy"
please tell me they got a gar at the crib
nope
, i gotta make a 30 min break stretch
when u go on it?
i'm thinking 1:30



chandra drunk gets on my nerves man 
hm, don't be  screwing rude! 
u kept saying the same crap over and over 
i did a lot of crap i didn't know i did til i woke up today 
your eyes were literally folded on sc and when i was at the drs office u wouldn't stop calling me and you kept telling me that
ahaha, wow. don't even remember calling you 



he looks at me like a stray puppy and i'm just like dude..... you have a kid.... and live with the mom......
i'm weak
noooooo i can't....  i always pray i have like five tables to serve when he's here so i don't have to talk to him.
he don't understand 
they never do.
not all males are the same 



honest to gosh if this placement lets me go to new york city all expenses paid i'm ready to start going to church again.
k i might go with you
lol i'd be going to work
and shopping at 2 am, getting korean food and sprinkles cupcakes with me
yeah it doesn't work like that. i'm barely gonna have free time and if i do i'll probably be too exhausted
youre literally the worst you binch



panda!!! i miss your face!!! hope everything is going well at snow!!! remember you are beautiful!!!
i miss you so much. you have no idea how much i love you. 
well girly one of these days i'll have to come down and we'll have a yocrazy date!!!
i wouldn't miss it for the world 
i'll let you know when i'm available and we'll see what we can do  remember try not to have to much fun at school 
okay boo, i cannot wait.  i'll try not too 



love seeing everybody's photos of the 1975!!! really hoping to photograph them again in november!!! 
then people started selling $40 tickets for over a $100 and i can not afford that!
i really want to shoot both dallas and houston dates!
that would be amazing!!!
it would be! yeah i hate ga shows! never been to houston but i know i will fell safer there than southside
agree though houston would probably be better than south side



"i voted for the libertariain, jeff something something" 
was that daniel? ...



"cool what are his like policies : track record? " - me "i don't really remember " - bingo
"what are his policies on legalization of weed...hmmm...oh legal, okay" *votes for jeff something something
lmao "jeff something something also is proposing the free in n out plan" "because we need to feed our daniels "



something about blonde hair and blue eyes that just catches your attention.

the homeland
don't forget about the hidden hitler switch that stays lowkey until they get mad at you
whatchu mean
they all posses an evil



avi  hey boo
wbuttup shorty. 
you're beautiful ma !
appreciate that shorty, you too. 
thank you baby girl
no problem! 



mommy's taking me
take me too
dang im just seeing this im sorry babe

wya
on the bus



i desperately need a new mackbook pro! waiting for the #appleevent !!
just got my custom made one 2 months ago
you did!!  i checked their website mafe info about it
no i mean i got the 2015 edition. i didn't know they'll release new laptops
oh! that's too bad. i think they will release the new ones with colors, like they did with 2015 macbooks.
hmmm interesting upgrade! however, silver still rocks on those macbooks.



it's so early to be ranting but everyone thinks i'm the happiest person in the world because of the way i act and how i'm always happy
like everyone likes me because of it and think i'm really nice and everything but in reality i'm like the most miserable person ever
u ok man 
i'm never ok :-)
if u need to talk i'm not doing anything rn 
i mean if you want just dm me



strangely, i noticed that the voices and "mouthing" in #dragonballxenoverse2 is out of sync.  very odd, to a point where all blame is on....
the editors or wdudever is in charge of adr, piecing the voices together.  had to bring it up though cuz its somewhat bothersome
been seeing that on footage that's out there. i have a feeling lines were recorded when the game was still being developed,
so they may not have had time to do proper adr.
agreed.  they couldve waited a little longer, but then again, players would rather hav it soon then wait half or a whole year for
the english dub



i actually studied and tried on the math test today and i still failed 
don't study like me
 screw you dick
\_()_/
i hate you fagget
u love me idiot



still waiting for 1 person - just 1! - to present an alternative policy on #syria to status quo, which clearly isn't working.i'm waiting.
#pt: critique all you want, but pushing the current track is illogical &amp; offering nothing but critique is academically immature.#syria
saw some further critiques of an enhanced u.s. buttertive role in #syria in past 36hrs.but still no alternative policy plans.im waiting.
#pt: if you critique w/o advocating some form of evolved #syria policy, you by default support the status quo, which has resolutely failed.
#pts: if you see [counter-]terrorism as the principle u.s. security interest in #syria, todays policy is comprehensively *not* working.
today's policy is not working when it comes to counter-terror because us is backing islamic extremists! what do u expect?



tomorrow is a huge day.. i'm not ready x.x;
you'll be fine 
hopefully
one step at a time :3 that's all ya gotta take. it's gonna be worth it.
not exactly a "one step at a time" thing. i'm not talking about the con.
true true. and i know. i remember. :3



sorry reip
ehat
im sorry nhi
what r u sorry for im scared
i hope reis dakimakura is him lying peacefully in his coffin
i hope rei daki wont be real



can't. feel. my. arms. 
someone call 9-1-1 this man can't feel his arms hahahah
i wish this wasn't so true haha
almost as bad as not having arms hahah
that will forever be one of my favorite memories from high school 
same  instantly thought of that when you said you couldn't feel your arms lmao



curious what everyone thinks about slack? i've always thought it could be a neat place for ongoing customer service. #fatidiotat
i use it primarily to communicate with co-workers.  never thought of it as a cs solution.  interesting idea.
i love it for co-worker communication. always wondered what a support channel might look like.
with a busy enough channel, you'd better like that popping notification noise!
i just like the idea of a team being involved for quick response rather than needing to funnel from social.
i'm all about a quick response.  i'd be curious to see how a ticket system would function in this regard.



if the indians win, i may actually have to do a pub crawl in cleveland!
i hope the #indians win today in #standingrock #nodapl :)
naturally, i should like chicago. however, i just can't stand the despicable cubs owners.
well, i'm not talking baseball. i'm talking real indians in north dakota.people as mascots = bad
that cultural misappropriation is deplorable. the situation in nd is even worse, may contaminate stuff for generations!
it's just like how the cherokee removal went down. this country has never changed.but hey, go #indians and #seminoles. #fdup



i really wanna drive out here but i'm shook. this whole other side of the road thing and crazy la drivers. madting sadting
like i've def nearly died in uber twice this week lol
lol.worse than a nyc cabbie? i know it is the same side of the road as the uk but driving in the caribbean is a suicide mission
nyc are real gs, these la ones are just a bit mad, oh know, driving in the caribbean is a death wish with all those cliffs lol
omg yes ....fr tho..the cliffs.  and the potholes feel like some kinda monster rising up from  road to bite your tires
and the whole no street lights thing in some areas. naaaaah thanks



i feel very sorry for the lambs in south america. but this isn't really mariah's fault. i trust her, i know she will go there soon.
yes it is sad. i am still not sure what exactly happened.
i don't know what happened either. but i just saw some people insulted her and don't wanna be lambs anymore. that sucks !
yes, sad. hopefully given time, they will feel differently
we'll see. but i doubt it.
you may be right



blessed.
heyyyy pig
hi
wyd
headed to work.
have a good one my nigga



i use to be on 54th and gaskill with them killas
from 74th and mac
i use to be on 64th but up the street on that 1 way lol
most wild crap i ever seen happened on 55th and international
i bet lol
yeah i be out late night too when all the wild crap happens



1.  did you use pseudonym on all emails?2.  did you every send clbuttified information via email using a pseudonym?
3rd question: doesn't this indicate u r also corrupt &amp; helping ruin the democratic party? potus, wall st controlled.
how does sending her random holiday greetings do that?  explain, i am curious.
that will take many words, far 2 many 4 twitter. let's see if i can stay awake &amp; get it written. holiday don't matter
i am open minded on this.  but i just don't see any actual evidence yet.
do u believe this is coup rather than election? is hrc being installed or elected? critical thinking &amp; logic r needed



from a paper i'm reading:"surprisingly, the scalability and performance of exim are significantly dependent on the file system."
"surprisingly"?!?!whomever wrote that: you're fired.
it's relevant but it's just "duh?"
honestly surprised that something like lmdb isn't the default backend  these days
oh for exim? fighting corruption is like 99% of writing a prod mailserver though
or at least for the operator heh



got added to a twitter list called "high-volume" and now i'm worried that i tweet too much
i feel like my sense of "high volume" is really thrown off by the number of new york media types i follow.
true they are out of control
i know what you mean though--i buttume every twitter list add is an implicit unfollow.
tbh i don't care that randos put me on lists. listen, don't listen, twitter was arguably more fun at 400 followers anyway
and hey, now that we have muting and the algorithmic timeline, gosh knows if anyone's listening.



i don't like sitting around all day  need to get my butt back in school
i can see that you need a piece of meat
 you kno i went gay gay
nuh... lol i know you, you like hard stuff and dykes ain't hard enough to satisfy you
i'm crying .. why you ain't do your 10 toes challenge
ima do it when i'm off  wyd this weekend



*ned and i listening to childish gambino*me: i don't get this, do you? ned: not really
what don't you get about childish? he's just clever word play 
"girl why you mufasa"
literally one of his worst lines, but he says before that "girl why is you lyin" but words it as "lion". plz ignore that song lol
oooooooooooooooooh!!!!! 
it's a line from a freestyle that he put into a real song that fits the beat, but is literally so bad 



trying to be more communicative with people and i'm not sure it's working out well for me.
pretty sure an awful lot of people like me better when i don't actually speak to them.
speak verbal or speak twitter?
online, mostly. although this has sometimes pertained in my outside life as well. =p
do you want some advices from me?
i don't think there's any shame in being a better orator than a conversationalist...



operation "sell low on lacy" has been a colossal failure this morning... stay tuned for operation "hold lacy and pray" this off-season.
what were the offers?
basically early 2nd round 2017 (some late 1st) valuation is what i was throwing out.
of course i don't have a second in the league i'm in with you,  and you're my only real competition at the top ;)
so much truth imo
that team is my biggest surprise.  i hated it when i drafted it last year,  and it ended up crushing.



wanna tell you how beautiful you are but you're nowhere to be found
she ain't crap
it's a song lol
liessssssssss
spooky black - without u listen to it
okay okay i was kidding dude 



to be like the 2013 lakers after 1 game. they still have to adjust.
chemistry &gt; talent, i wish your team the best
yeah this spurs team continued from where they started last season while gsw started from scratch.
i'm not a spurs fan, but kawhi leonard is such a beast all-around guy. kd needs to be more all-around like him in gsw.
kawhi to me is the mvp this season. he could've been 1 last yr if curry never improved.
true, i respect him so much. plus i heard kobe mentored him in the offseason



my take on new rule - doesn't go far enough. cup drivers will still dominate nxs. but happy they are out for chase races #smallvictories
and the dash for cash races too
yes - although most (or some) of those are stand-alones anyway
do you think this wouldve happened anyway if it was another driver stinkin it up like kyle has recently?
yes
agreed...wonder how many that call n complain today wither dont or refuse to realize it



lidia has me straight dead right now ive missed her so much



i wanna be part of this
thank you for ur bomb filming skills
dude lolllll  we gotttttt you!!!!
lol on to bigger and better things in life right



been in my mentions lol
lol ikr
lol, what have you been up to?  me just going to wrestling shows &amp; playing wwe 2k17 on ps4 &amp; getting my tweets liked/seen by tjp
nm just going to school and studying psychology and watching wwe of course
and dodging  screwboys and catfishes so many of them try to get in my dms in my social media
lol ive had a few myself i've hit the block button what do you expect more desperate guys than guys with meaning or purpose smh



it  screwing hurts to even lay my head down. gosh.
did you try taking some ibuprofen?
away. 
i'm sorry, babe. wish i could do something to help.
it's okay, babe. just sucks when i have to go to school and do things instead of resting.
yeah, i know. 



 screw shawty till that lil pussy start to fart!!!

i give no play idiot keep those hands there 
boyyyyyyyyy
wonder why this bih blowing my line talking about she falling for me bihhh betta get tf up 
do not fall. this is a no fall zone



everyone needs to read/listen to you are a badbutt by jen sincero...inspiration af! 
i have had this book for awhile now but have yet to read it
you need to! it's the best thing that's ever happened to me (dramatic, i know), but it is good lol
haha okay i'll check it out and let you know my thoughts on it
please do. i'll be interesting to hear a guys perspective.
someone told me that i should skip the first half of the book and just start after like chapter 11. what is your take on that lol?



hhsur pep rally's ain't crapur student section ain't crapur sports ain't crap do u even have spirit days besides botb ? i'm curious .
okay stop  thats wrong
your football team wins sometimes .. the only thing worth being acknowledged is your basketball,wrestling, and water polo
every sport at hemet is better then wv ?
ya'll act like we ain't crap because our football team is the best .. but neither is yours lmao
isn't *



take some alone time each morning to meditate or write or walk, whatever it is for you, just be with yourself before you start your day.
that sounds like an awesome idea. i used to write a lot before, then life happened:(
it's hard but makes a big difference! i've started setting my alarm 20 mins earlier to journal a few pages in the morning 
yeah i've been debating a lot in my mind about it. there's so much i have in my head and i just want to let it out.
highly recommend the journaling. just the act of writing those thoughts down is such a release &amp; you'll find so much clarity
thank you so much for the advice. i truly appreciate it.



i definitely don't like coconut water
it's the best 
:( it's sucks but i'll still drink it cause it's healthy
lol not everyone likes cause there's really no flavor
it tastes kind of sour, like sour milk and water combined lmao
hahahah never thought of it like that



it's october r: like i said golden state is not a lock to win it all
still no lock
it isn't like you said then lol. it's just one game
exactly so they shouldn't be considered a lock neither....
nah y'all gonna just critique everything the warriors do in the regular season like it even matters. "i told you" lmao
not at all i just think other teams can compete



due to a pending deployment with no internet, i've been forced to start actually downloading porn to bring with me like a caveman
dear lord, what 3rd world country are you being sent to?
the ocean and then the middle east somewhere and then the ocean again
bless your heart, they put you on a boat didn't they?
yes 
be strong



my last draw meet w/kids: this 15 year old girl looked through my iphone texts right in front of my friend....like bruh u dont do that....
what the... that's so rude and creepy???
it was so......creepy and the whole time she was trying to get my attention but in a very wrong way
:-( hopefully w age restriction it'll be less creepy?? like wowowow that was so invasive and over the line
i had one meet up on my birthday...and there were at least 30 ppl laughs.....
wah that sounds like fun and wow such a huge group omg how did you guys all fit in one place



i'm off today so i'm going to take like 50 naps until ava get home from school
swear you me smh
lol
already got my nap scheduled out
i'm about to roll over now...i'm tied
lol enjoy



love it and him.
who?
the zaddy outfit.
does he know this?
no... i'm shy. lol
tell him



i just started watching shameless and omg
hate that show lol
whyy
the story is like way too confusing lol
no it's not but then again i'm still on season 1
on top of it all that show is just weird lmao



u know how some ppl window shop online by adding items to their cart &amp; then erasing it all? i just did that... with taco bell. #mylifeissad
yo i got you one day on some taco bell, this broke my heart lol
btw i need to get that course number for you! in glad you tweeted me!
i appreciate that by the way
it's mc1100e - digital tools with dale blasingame
thank you 



discovered the dark side of twitter in a hashtag game filled w humor, then stuffed w antisemitism and racism. i wish for equality &amp; respect.
the same people must moonlight as trolls on my youtube vids. apparently i am jew who is working for the illuminati. who knew?!
i ignore trolls except on halloween. then, i give them candy. i learned they have their own issues and one of them isn't me.
i admit i play with my trolls. i can't help it.



my troll playing generally involves me grading their comments w/ solid advice on how to include more humor/intellect



my conference for my english is tomorrow instead of halloween. i could've stayed in vegas until monday :(
if only i didn't have to work sunday smh
 off
let me borrow some points
did you use your call sick frees? i got you i'm at 0 i think
how do i check to see if i have any?



i just bought a cheese grater off a registry for a friend's wedding. in the note section i put "i hope you have a grate time together"
soon to be (former) friend, i imagine
it was either that or a jug of syrup. the wedding is saturday so the list was pretty slim by the time i got to it today
would've gone with the syrup.
at one point i was getting them a spatula and a berry strainer, so yeah, i shouldve snagged the syrup.
wedding registers baffle me. why don't couples already have these things and why all of a sudden need them when married?



players like simmons and leonard are tough...pushes back against the soft label the spurs have
all facts, but i've never heard that rhetoric in regards to the spurs.
"too many europeans", not enough dog in them, blah blah been a off and on critique of the team for a while in hoop circles
i guess i've heard those opinions tossed around. never really equated it to them being soft though, but i feel you.
europeans always accused of that...kg himself would target euro players for being soft
true. i thought pop, david &amp; duncan were enough to disregard that label. they're "boring" if u don't know , soft is crazy tho.



wake up seeing all these hot takes on the warriors..yea it's one game
#warriors are going to miss the playoffs. durant messed up their chemistry! lol #nba #hottake
lmfao! dude i'm seeing all types of stupid crap like that
me too lmaoooooo
i'm not even the hugest basketball fan but this stuff pisses me off its like are they that slow
if they are 15-25 halfway through you could make that argument. but one game vs. the 2nd best team in the conference? hahaha



good morning and gosh bless 
good morning gerald 
morning sis
i got 4 hours, sad
tragic *your voice*
up yet??



i just smoked this cause it'll have me sleep soooo good
lit...
literally
same 
aw cheers
cheers  hope to see you around sometime soon!



really debating on applying to the prison. the pay is so good, and i already got my connect to get me in. but is the risk worth it ?! 
im on the sameeeeee boat
such a risk... like is it worth it ?
i'm sayinggg  but that check is crazy too i'm here doing a pro &amp; cons list about it
lmao deadbutt! i just finally got my man to give me the thumbs up to even work there lol.  screw it, i think ima go for it
do it baby g ! and if it isn't working out then there's always other options &amp; opportunities



nba &amp; world series champions? by way of toronto? i can't take that kind of pain.
the cubs will win it
i don't know.... i feel it might just be cleveland's year lol
nah chicago wins game 2 then 3 and 5 and wins it in 6 lol
lmao! guess we'll see... is it 2-2-3? or 2-3-2?
2-3-2. the weirdest "home field advantage"



i real life need a blunt lol
man
mann burn it lol
i'm tired
stop being a weenie lol
nah man i'm sleepy



definitely putting money on ryan. 
i would too tbh, even though i really shouldn't because east coast.but  screw it, ryan seems way stronger.
it would be a good match for sure. ryan's on a hotstreak but cosmos slays goshs for fun so it would be nuts.
i think cosmos has a good matchup against traditional top teams, but any sort of unconventional strategy trips him up.
it would be interesting to see if he could adapt to ryan's playstyle, but idk.
yeah, like, who has chun experience?



trying to be more communicative with people and i'm not sure it's working out well for me.
pretty sure an awful lot of people like me better when i don't actually speak to them.
speak verbal or speak twitter?
online, mostly. although this has sometimes pertained in my outside life as well. =p
do you want some advices from me?
... i just don't want to appear as if i'm here for my own aggrandizement either. and i do like people on here.



na dead butt i'm a do a horoscope thread sometime soon i think i got all my signs down now y'all know i been practicing this crap lmao
i'm shook lmaoo
you a pisces right???
no lol
lmfaooooo im crying what are you????
i'm kidding how you know that i purposely took my bday out my bio lmao



imy
i will be back in cc soon lil homie
like when exactly ?? 
i think thanksgiving is the earliest
alright bro 
i'll hit you or you sis up when i'm headed down



yo i got 104k my team for u
dang idk if i want that much. how much mut for it?
do u know the price of my team?
no i dont buy it. how much mut for 50k mt?
3:1 ratio cool?
ya, is it cool if i buy the card tomo when i get on? wont be on tonight.






big difference between discerning a ball/strike in baseball and fumble/catch in football.
theres more to look at in football. in baseball, a computer as you see on tv, can do it instantly.
ball/strike is a black and white call. two states. fumbles and catches are not.
black and white calls should be decided by technology. especially when a baseball is moving 80-105 mph.
a fumble and catch would be more if-then-else type deal. with lots of branching paths.



5. celebq from merriam-webster: what word should mean the opposite of what it means?(forme condone, always felt it should mean the opposite)
technically, "awful" used to mean the opposite of what it means today. used to mean: "full of awe"  #themoreyouknow
really???? #themoreiknow
really. think about it: awe. full.
: inflammable. on that note, i also contribute: infamous.
i followed the armadillo



work is way too easy today lmao
where you work?
walmart
cashier or?
stocking/inventory
ahh that's easy. if i were you, i'd lowkey finesse a bag of chips and eat that crap.



sometimes i think my mum's a bot, then not, then i think she's a bot then not
maybe she's just delusional?
i want to wait and see on this i've felt so similar but i have no proof
whenever i try to explain something controversial to her she never gets it and she's a smart woman -
i mean what kind of human can be this ignorant?
does it seem intentional? like she intentionally keeps herself ignorant so she doesn't have to actually think about things



y'all gon make me take a shot of apple crown ain't no apple crown? that's all cap
i'm gon talk that crap that niggas wanna hear. nigga drinking lean like he drinking beer
1 yeezy boot ooooooneee
how a nigga do
got me all itching and crap that's my fav part
tity ripped that tape.



i wish it was socially acceptable to meet someone and say "hey, i want to know you lets me friends"
knowing you, youd probably find a way to make that socially acceptable 
so you think i should go for it?
do it! id be friends with someone that did that!
if he ends up thinking i'm creepy will you talk to him and tell him im not thaaaat creepy?
totally!



if you care about me, you've done a crap job showing it  you didn't take chances
i'm sorry jeffery i luuuuuuv u
you had your chance
people change
i never wanted you to change!! i want the old nick back
the old nick died long ago



democrats are lying and corrupt people. the race baiting is getting old, is that the best you can do? lol!
i've read your tweets. put down fox news and pick up a book and then we can chat.
i read the bible, do you?
i live in a country founded on the freedom from religion. put down the bible &amp; pick up the constitution 
this country was founded on christian values, sweetie. read your history
ever heard of the 1797 treaty of tripoli? don't school me on history, friend



miss jaelin det much .. hopefully i get to be w/ him this weekend since we're both off ...

what lol
salty 
ima be salty if i don't see him .. c/ i know how he get
them butthole ways



i need to go and pick up my paycheck cause i been broke for the pbutt 2 weeks
wait why you picking up a check?
cause every time i try to do the direct deposit on they computer i don't get a chance cause its always busy at walmart
can you only do it at walmart? can you do it at home ?
yup.. only on they crap sadly
go to work a lil early or stay a lil later to get it done . i use to hate wasting gas to go pick up a check 



i watched "hate rising" last night. highly recommended. the corridor scene with ramos and the trump camaign says it all. #nevertrump
i dvred it. haven't finished watching it yet. was at the point where he was interviewing the second guy.
the weirdo nazi groups are as expected - it's the people who might pbutt for normal who are shocking.
exactly! the "shirt and tie, white nationalist" as the one lady put it. they have a better chance of recruiting more people.
it's astonishing anyone is that stupid and obtuse on purpose in this century.
eh, a lot of these folks aren't stupid though. it's about fear. they're afraid of "change".



pizza on the way 
bring me some
i gotchuu
i'm serious
lol so am i! i gotchuu. . i guess 
thank you



just pinned my first tweet on my profile! should be interesting....
you are so cute! enjoy your tweets.
aww, thank you so much, gail! means a lot! 
really mean it and your knowledge of music is crazy good.
oh, you're so kind! i'm just happy i can share my love of music &amp; country music with you. 
keep it up girl! 



i-i-i-i did it, all right, all right, i admit it now pick your next move, you could leave or live wit' it
we're vibin the same way rn
i'm reading the lyrics right now like its deep fam
i think i'd cry if i read them right now. they sound more like a sad book than a song.
a sad book about arrogance pretty much
so beautiful tho. deff top 5



i should of picked up 
smh
whaaaat 
you should have picked up
i didn't need it earlier 
you just never know



running on 2 hours 
do it for the crew
coming home and sleeping until my shift tomorrow..
i'm in the middle of a clopen, so i just slept in my clothes cause we were dead as crap yesterday
dang!
abd that's all day



usually i only do two days at my 4:30am job but this week it's all five.. i'm gonna die but also money
it's okay i close 6 times a week 5-1am
crap girl do work. i still have my job at costco tho 6-11:30ish usually so i get like 3/4 hours of sleep when i'm lucky 
same but you don't get paid only 5 dollars plus tips which range up to atleast $9. you go making mula
oh wtf is minimum that little there?? or wuh that's crazy but thanks i try
no minimum is $7.25.... but serves out here get 5 and $5 is already good...



yk you're an adult when you want a slow cooker for christmas
slow cookers are an adults best friend. i'd be lost without mine
i can't wait 
they're so amazing in the winter too bc everything smells nice and the food is warm 
oh gosh, it sounds like paradise, adulthood is so good 
crockpots, home decor, new recipes... i love being an adult just get rid of the money issues



kinda eire, sound of mahjong tiles while walking her hair on the train...
you are kind of creepy.
creepy.
yep, that's you.
but the media company, or can it do some magic when the full system is running too?
it can do lots of magic. your complete sentences surprise me sometimes.



how do i respond to that. lmao 
shirtless, probably. hahahahaha
well....
you did?!
lmao no! just wondering what he woulda said if i did
show me and we'll pretend. hahaha



how to be romantic in 4 words: i ordered you pizza
i have season tickets...
touch
you coming up friday night to the gameday tailgate? we'll be there all night long.
gonna try! depends on what games i cover friday night
come after the hs games.



guys will dead butt have you thinking they love you and the next minute they are  screwing with someone else.
heh?
wut
this about ur life or someone else's?
it's in general. all the threads i've read the past couple of days lol
just checking 



gs lost???
chemistry doesn't happen over summer. they'll tighten up
i know once playoffs hit it's over
fr. i was pretty salty watchin the game at work lol
by 29 tho 
i'm sayin. they played like they expected to win and you can't win games like that. crapty d &amp; for 4 all stars 100pts sloppy



my header represents me after every decision in my life

its accurate af fam
that's how i look after i order sneakers #sneakerheadproblems
facts!  and how i look when i think about the next pair when a fresh one just came in
same!!



. what b the move
crap wbuttup me &amp; cory linking up friday
aw yeah? 
naturally link up if you off
on me i'm in pa for the week
say no more we locked in






you just tryna get elon musk to retweet you like eduard habsburg did so you can gloat some more
my moment has pbutted. i'll never relive it
i retweet you on occasion. that's almost as cool
you are descended from royalty
descended from? idiot i am royalty



really wanna start shameless but would also like to keep my sanity
doooo itttt...dooooo ittttt
i already know so much of what happens though id only watch it for ian and mickey lmao
same..i watched it only for them, however they dont really appear that much at first. but i fell in love w the plot&amp;other ppl
ahhhh i'll think about it 
i should probably continue it but i needed a small break from it lol especially since college  screws me up haha



for those who don't know...luna is my dog. i woke my gramma up to sing happy birthday to my dog 
going dt this weekend?
yeah i texted you that i'm going friday
where r u gonna go?
i think we're barhopping the whole way down 2nd st lol
ok. i'll text you to see where you'll be at



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition
ik man i've been in a little slump lately and i'm trying to build my dreams back up
if you need anything dm me homie



i miss my other half. 
miss you too

stop being like this
stop being delusional.
forgot you're to good



in the last week or so i've considered moving to new hampshire and vermont. i'm so washed it's unreal.
no you're not
i'm not?!
nah. no you're not.
idk naps and price is right are two of my favorite things ever.
living a calm life ain't being washed.



finale is next week smdh
i'm more pissed that paperboi and darius weren't in this last episode lol
this episode was pretty good tho lol
the end was lol. i'm just not a fan of gambino on this show
well i'm a pure fan plus he's a genius
lol it was a good episode especially the balcony scene





you mean so much to me . im glad i have you 
i know boo

you the best 



is kawhi still a system player? i'll wait.
you know they play 81 more games right?
they're 0-1 though. if they would have won though...
personally i would have said the same thing. 81 more to go.
1-0 bruh. no excuses. it's 1 game, but the league is on notice.
but the bench is prolly the best in the league. but again. its early.



yes the spurs thumped the warriors but stop saying they won't win this or that. still so much ball to play
only 1 game smh
right bro and they saying they won't win the west etc. i mean dann
thats bs, they really needed that butt whoopin they woke now
100% but people forgot the 11 heat started slow af too but i'm sleep 
i swear i was thinkin tha same thing, just like the 11 heat



i want watch mana live
they're badbutt
i just saw they going to be in oakland!!
i know november 11!!!
i'm going to try and go 
the tickets are super expensive!! lol



someone take me to a pumpkin patch before i lose my crap
honestly been thinking the same thing. leggo before i work saturday
why am i 7-3
i work 4-8 
when do they close 
most of them around 9-9:30



hello
hello :)
hello how r u?
doing great. how about yourself ?
i'm fine thank u
what ya got going on in memphis?



good morning happy wednesday or hump day x
good morning christie
good morning maggie you at work now,hope it goes well for you x
thanks buttercup, getting ready enjoy your day
yes hope work goes well maggie x
thanks, having a halloween luncheon today on our floor. we look for any reason to good off and eat



hungry af 
lol bruce tell u about that buttwhooping i gave him
nope how bad
nigga choked lmao let me get a onside kick  and after i missed the extra point for the tie

you  can get it too real crap lmao nigga havent came over since u got maxed in 2k hahah



my heart is sad
i know this seems like it is about a boy but it's because i saw a dog on campus tonight and it wouldn't let me touch it
omg this is the same dog we saw that one night on the garage i see it every day
her name is presley it's decided and i just want to love her. like why hang out around a school if you don't like people bro
i'm currently prepping to kidnap her
i just want to feed her mashed potatoes and show her affection



it's crazy how modern presidents have this kind of celebrity status among society now
they are now literally like puppets of the country, just for show
idk i don't see them as "puppets for show", but they do have that sense of publicity you know? the famous kind of publicity
yeah
dang detailed response i like it lucy
lol i'm on 1% plus i hate talking about politics with ppl but yeah i get it like i feel like we are now voting for most fame



not knowing who ted ends up with is killing me!! almost to the end though.
what season are you on?! i'm watching it right now too
season 8 episode 2! you?
omg that's crazy! i'm on season 8 episode 4!!
uhhh what no way that is wild! bout to not sleep and try to get as close as i can to the end lol
how close did you get? hahah



thinking more today about diversity in tech companies &amp; how they could really benefit from sensitivity training. heck, all companies could.
we hear most about sensitivity training for companies interacting with the general public: hospitality, healthcare, etc. why not all?
it's not as tho marginalized ppl aren't also consumers or potential hires for companies. everyone should learn to understand inclusivity.
if a game studio is going to be made up of all white dudes the very least they could do is get trained on non white dude issues.
's company did sessions on diversity issues, as has vox! agreed, super worthwhile.
. trying to think of ways to bridge the diversity gap. people with privilege need exposure. mandatory training could help.



what climate change?
the thing that flooded you out of your house...that climate change....
co2 made that front stall over my house? please explain how that works.
the more moisture in the air the more intense the weather...simple science
then why no category 3 hurricanes hitting land since 2005? not so simple.
you should be glad they are not hitting land, they are still there, james



i finally figured out what i'm going to be for halloween so at least i have that going for me rn.
i just bought a costume couldn't think of anything diy or original it's fine everyone will be very drunk.
honestly gonna be a little bummed if you tell me it's not a satan costume
house so is a thing he like
are you gonna be morrissey?????
dang i have all the necessary physical traits for that...but nah!



tally?
no i wish,cali
girl that's where it's at
i can't find nobody to do my hair tho.
they might be expensive but it's a couple i've seen
it don't matter as long as they slay...but dm them to me please



i left my scarf there at your sisters house and you've still got it in your drawer even know
oh, your sweet disposition and my wide-eyed gaze.we're singing in the car, getting lost upstate.
autumn leaves falling down like pieces into place and i can picture it after all these days
and i know its long gone and that magics not here no more and i might be ok but im not fine at all
cause here we are again on that little town street, you almost ran the red when you were looking over at me
wind in my hair, i was there, i remember it all too well.



the ultra boost goshs answered my prayers 
the next roshes
chill that's the nmds 
boosts next
no way dawg. comfort never goes out of style
word to the homie ricky 



i need to go and pick up my paycheck cause i been broke for the pbutt 2 weeks
wait why you picking up a check?
but i think they going to fire me cause i got clbutt on thursday the same time i have clbutt... girl we needs to talk!!! 
they can't fire you for that?
they petty and don't value education like they make it seem in orientation.. my walmart petty asf 
no your manager doesn't value it but the company still does. you'd have to contact someone in a higher position or hr



doesn't forget about me this morning 
nah ima stay home 
i would love to but my mom would kill me 
i did the other day 
lmfao wow 
you almost ready?



so why hasnt the us of a added pins the the credit chip cards
some do have the option, but it's rare. seen a couple of customers at work that have to pin with their chip cards.
its just, ever since i can rme we here, the credit card by default had the pin number same as the debit  which can be changed.
usa is weird. none of us understand it either.
oh well,  cant always be on top!
true that



man they're using that "corrupt politician that has ever run for office" up the kazoo. repeat a lie often enough &amp; ppl will believe it.
that's been trump's entire life and campaign.
it has. repeat repeat and repeat again. and his sheep believe it all.
he repeats x100, media repeats his repeats x100. it's exponential lying on a grand scale.
and a lot of it will stick even after proven false. the media must shoulder a huge part of the blame for trump. huge! lol
the only good thing is if there are any fence setters anymore, it might help. msm created trump &amp; is responsible.



interesting. catching up on internal sops in the office this morning.  we've a new health and safety policy for working alone in the field.
is it to not point the lasers at yourself?
yes! do not point the lasers at yourself or anyone else.  ;p
anyone else? uncoooooool.
i actually did point the laser at myself a few weeks ago and could see a signal from the bone in my finger. how cool is that?
that is fricking badbutt, no lie



lady's, there is nothing wrong with acting like a woman, liking girly things, and having woman like mannerisms.
i'm sorry, but there are so many things wrong with this tweet.
spelling wise or me talking?
both.
well you follow me. never forced you to do so. so please if you don't like my content. feel free i won't be hurt
was never worried about hurting your feelings. just don't want you to embarrbutt yourself with your own ignorance.



would rather be eating coconut shrimp
can we get that i haven't stopped thinking about it since i saw this tweet
we have to go to joes crab shack at some point
i'm not rich
it's all you can eat i don't think it's very pricey
all you can eat????



will you bring me donuts? i'll pay you when you get here 
lol jk i guess lunch is on you and i'll get us breakfast
nope nope hell no! you always take the cheap way out. 
breakfast isn't cheap idiot
donuts is cheap asf! nigga, you gonna spend $8 at the most 
fine then be that way hateful butt



"what's the saddest why to die and still live""falling in love and seeing them walk away"  me lmaoo
i want to watch shut in
lmao let me find out if we're showing it
lmao ok fake
guillermo said ur fake bcs u didn't answer his call
guillermo fake everytime i wanna hang he's like i'm with. big head or george or with your butt



one day i will want to meet you because you are a person who adds to a person's experience - i look forward to that time
you are too kind!
i appreciate folks that are real, you are genuine in your expressions.
cheers mike!
one day we'll meet, we'll stare, &amp; then we'll drink as friends
lol. you had me at "stare"



i'm finna go do buku job applications today
apply at mooyah
girl i ain't going work there . i'm going find me a good paying job that i'm gone stay at .
lmfaoo okay do walmart or sum they pay like $9
yeah that's who i'm going do lol. &amp; some other ones
good crap



i nap like 5x a day
i wish i can do that :(
i literally fall asleep anywhere lol
the only place i really be falling asleep is on the train lmaoo
that's the one place i hate sleeping on ! i feel like i might open my mouth and end up on someone's snapchat
lmfaoooo i feel you  but thats why i usually buy coffee in the am to stay awake on the ride but when my day is over im slumpedd af



my roommate had a date with someone last week, and he said "idk, man. i took her to shoot pool, and she just wasn't feeling it, i guess."
he's pretty upset about it and can't seem to figure out that shooting pool wasn't a very good idea for a first date
that would be an awesome first date what even?????
smh..
what?! i love pool
but for a first date tho!



call ur henchmen slime
go back 2 sleep lol
lol it's 9 i'm awake already
me too haven't seen u in 4ever
facts tho last time i saw you were we doing community service  lmao
no we were at that kids house w the pool and the tent and the speaker lol



is there a reason people tend to choose romantic partners that they look like they could be related to? like, a scientific reason
it's weird, buddies.
they want to have offspring that look like them because they want to pbutt off their genes both phenotypically and genotypically
makes sense to just breed with relatives then, que no
i mean they also don't want a child with extra toes we're programmed to not want to mate with persons we have known since birth
makes sense. what about gay couples tho



love seeing everybody's photos of the 1975!!! really hoping to photograph them again in november!!! 
then people started selling $40 tickets for over a $100 and i can not afford that!
i really want to shoot both dallas and houston dates!
that would be amazing!!!
it would be! yeah i hate ga shows! never been to houston but i know i will fell safer there than southside
hahah i only do ga shows but some venues are better than others and it depends on the fans too



running on 2 hours 
do it for the crew
coming home and sleeping until my shift tomorrow..
i'm in the middle of a clopen, so i just slept in my clothes cause we were dead as crap yesterday
dang!
we had under 400



folks are mad because ciara proves there is life after f**k boys. bask in your post-f**k boy glow sis. congrats to the wilson's.
im guessing  its future's fans still butthurt that she  found a good man.and didnt come crawling back to him..
yep. that is something i don't understand.
admittedly  i dont  know a lot about her. but if she makes  russell happy thats enough  for me
exactly. i love seeing people happy and in love. i have no clue why anyone would be against that.
its an ego thing.



yo i got 104k my team for u
dang idk if i want that much. how much mut for it?
do u know the price of my team?
no i dont buy it. how much mut for 50k mt?
that's cool bro just hit me up on here or facebook
alright cool



stevie wonder need to let them braids go... once they get to the back of your head like that's it's over with..
he just holding on they gone evaporate

hey man check your dm sent you my new number
alright bet. ima text you when i get up
bet that



i think maybe i shouldn't invest in people i can't hug at the end of an evening and feel great about it.
hold on. not everyone wants to be hugged.
i guess but ice got to say a platonic hug feels great. what if i just want to hug the counter party and they can opt in? 
no. you are in a power position and many women may be uncomfortable refusing.
this is exactly what many women are trying to talk about. imagine an lp hugging you. or a federal judge. you ok with that?
i'd love it actually! i hugged 3 men tonight. i mean this in a totes platonic way. normally i agree with you 100% but maybe not here



curiosity was killing me, so i am at the bk alamo drafthouse rn, and (predictably enough) it is so wonderful i could cry.
but did you get any kool stuff at century 21
no, but wow is that building full of places we all hate ourselves for secretly loving.
there's even a brooklyn roasters in c21! (ahh i can't wait to go see moonlight at ad)
i just want moonlight to play somewhere below 14th st that isn't angelika.
i was surprised at how few theaters it was at last weekend, but think it should be pretty easy to see this weekend.



i haven't gotten nudes in so long that i didn't even know how to respond when some guy sent me one lmao
send one back lmao
lmaooo all i said was "nice"
i'm gonna get he didn't reply ?
no he replied, he even sent another one 
ohhhh well then 



i need a new back, apparently. or maybe i should just stop lifting heavy stuff.
i got a new lower back 14 years ago...
oh. i need one! or i just need to cut out that piece of muscle that i keep having spasms in! what am i, 200 years old? :)
lol. i killed a few discs, had to replace em.
oh. uh oh. from working out?
naw, lifted wrong. had a defect in my spine i didn't know about... so at a real young age, had it all fixed.



my escape ticket seller just flaked on me!!still looking for 2 single saturday tickets to escape
saturday?? booooo
friday is extinct though !
sneak in!!!
lol i'm not a pretty asian girl like you that can just walk in 
i mean  do you follow the "rave exchange socal buy/sell" on fb?



y'all, momo is the reason that i'm a hurt dude 
don't be blaming me
wowwww k 
no no no
it's okay, cause like the wise aaliyah once said "if at first you don't succeed, dust yourself off and try again"
that's right



daleks are so loud and scary, most effective alarm ever. scary as crap
did it exterminate your sleep?
it definitely did, like 12 times

lol still sounds scary
it screeches "exterminate" and does really loud shooting sound effects and it wakes me up in a panic



show: "the blacklist" this man was on the most wanted list but turns himself in to the fbi, but you'll have to watch to see why. he so smart
movie: "tears of the sun" navy go to save a doctor in africa but she don't want to leave all the ppl behind so they basically go to war.
show: "how to get away with murder," i don't have to even explain this one, you just sleep if you don't watch it but catch up on netflix.
lol i gotchu i'm bout to start watching this
warning, they have gay scenes in it! lol
lol what about the blacklist



are more than 20 teams going to stl?
i live 1.5 hours away, but don't have a team. might come spectate this weekend though if i don't get a last-minute squad.
dude if shirts are dope there i may get you to pick me up 2 i can paypal. lemme know 
absolutely! wish you'd come though so we can hang bb.
i know i know bb :( going to see bae this weekend. we're trying to come to an event soon
hopefully there are more that i can go to. absolutely can't justify flying to cali when i have bills to pay. haha



as a sox fan to root for the cubs would be like being a michigan state fan who starts rooting for michigan. it doesn't happen
yeah but michigan and michigan state are in the same conference just like hmmm the sox and indians
i want to keep the world series in the al central, shows the sox play in the best division in baseball
makes the sox fans look like fools alway rooting for their dvsn winnr. every dvsn winner since '10 has used the sox as a doormat
sox weren't the doormat in 2012 or even this year, if the sox's season ended after april they'd be the best team in the al
cleveland was 11-8 vs the sox. 2012 tigers were 12-6. looks bad to be rooting for the teams that run you over consistently



my conference for my english is tomorrow instead of halloween. i could've stayed in vegas until monday :(
if only i didn't have to work sunday smh
 off
let me borrow some points
did you use your call sick frees? i got you i'm at 0 i think
i think so



in their feelings going through a heart ache 
i hate yoooouuuu!! and yes!! i'm very heartbroken ian shame..
screaming to the top of mi lungs!!! jamerio!!!!! i wish your butt was sleep so i could have deleted it..
*jamireo but naw i was woke just in time  why you and pooh having heart surgery and crap 
man it must be in the air!! we woke up like this!!
only in your house 



so boreddd
i missed you at work 
awe  do you close thursday?
i don't work thursday  i don't get to see you until next week
what the hell  i thought you did ! ithats way too long ! 
i'll come see you on thursday 



discovered the dark side of twitter in a hashtag game filled w humor, then stuffed w antisemitism and racism. i wish for equality &amp; respect.
the same people must moonlight as trolls on my youtube vids. apparently i am jew who is working for the illuminati. who knew?!
i ignore trolls except on halloween. then, i give them candy. i learned they have their own issues and one of them isn't me.
i admit i play with my trolls. i can't help it.



but i thought dr. phil said there are always two sides to a pancake.



theres a rule. gotta be married a year before getting pregnant. slut
you been pregnant yo whole life
thats just water weight
when does your water break
when ya dick grow
i mean... every time i watch porn



*gets into an uber in costume*uber driver: " sorry i don't think i have any disney music"
i h8 uber drivers who are like this or ask weird about disneyland like stfu and drive me please
" it was a joke...i was just trying to break the ice" i literally do not want to talk i just want to go home
omg like when my uber asks me rly uncomfortable things about my job or complains about prices like.... shut the  screw up
look man im paying rn for you to drive me. im not going to complain about uber to u if i meet u at my work place so stop
i am officially not on the clock. u wanna talk?? fine. please dont make me feel uncomfortable



moving is so stressful 
where to ?
fontana!
you're going to be so much closer to me 
i thought you were in pomona?
dad lives in rialto !



post the picture!!
no stop 
do it!
on sc 
rn?
yeah



#hereiamwithher. voted for our #hillary yesterday. shimmy, tears, for my grandmothers.
well, expect a lot more tears after we end up in more endless wars.
did my part in halliburton's war. still, #hereiamwithher. says a lot : my support is not just about her gender.
i didn't like that war either....she's a george bush in a pantsuit.
i disagree. she's shrewder, and with tighter parameters. think she's right of obama, but no bush.
well, we'll see. mark my words. if she wins, we're in for a hell of a lot of war all over a regime change in syria. bad news.



just finished the last episode of that 70s show! now what am i going to do with my life??
i finished it last week and honestly i still don't know what to do with myself
like there isn't anything else to watch on netflix
no you pretty much just need to start over
ok time to watch another 200 episodes
yes that's the spirit!!! honestly it was better the second time



14 days and our president will be
i thought you were wasted man lol
not tonight im tryimg to save energy til halloween
what you on dude? dm me if necessary
im confused
dm me and i'll explain



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition
ik man i've been in a little slump lately and i'm trying to build my dreams back up
i was there my best advice is use that negativity into a positive homie that will be your greatest strength homie



i'm still waiting on all this free healthcare, college, housing, and money from the government, that everyone says us native americans get.
yeah, i could use a bit of that too
yeah, i really didn't care for paying the penalty for not having health insurance when i was laid off last year
the healthcare situation is actually better than when we were kids. but still not the best. er visits over hastings visits
man, i can't count how many times we had to drop someone off at hastings, usually in the middle of the night.
long drive to get told your std isn't a pregnancy



trying to be more communicative with people and i'm not sure it's working out well for me.
pretty sure an awful lot of people like me better when i don't actually speak to them.
speak verbal or speak twitter?
online, mostly. although this has sometimes pertained in my outside life as well. =p
do you want some advices from me?
you're welcome to offer it, at least - but i'll offer a caveat first.



my dear, my sincerest condolences.  sending you love and light.
legit thought of you the other day. appreciate it, love. how are you?
aww how sweet is that. i'm okay, wbu?
i'm okay, ty.
absolutely. still not sleeping i see.
lol, barely.



@gnoccofritto honoured that you can waste a rt on my tweets! peek at my timeline for great photos, images, art.
but every now and then there is a photo i find interesting
you're full of it i have great photographers on my timeline!
most of those people are re-posting the work of others.
some of them are dead! good luck with that! i'm very selective.
you could be even more selective.



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*
ooops
yeeeah. major fail. hubs put cat food on the kitchen floor, i kept putting dog in kitchen to save her from ear-yanking kid



i need klink
u lost huh
lost money, pride, dignity, and drive to turn on my ps4
sheesh i'm 3-0 today
i lost every match today. not 1 w. not playing unless i see "klinkypoo" on the team. need my good luck charm.
u done for the night?



today is one of those days where i wanna say " screw it", go home, and become a burrito.
be a burrito
the minute 3 pm hits, i will turn into a burrito. kinda like in cinderella. she turned into a burrito right? 
a really crapty burrito, sure.
....i kinda want a burrito now.
yeah, i'm really feeling some t-bell right now.



wth am i gonna be for hallosuween 
what's the move friday i'm pulling up lol
i actually don't know lol. my friends here going to ou for nia and them party. i can find out what the party is for you though
oh okay. you going to ou friday ?
i'm not sure yet, i might go
ok just lmk



i just watched the gilmore girls trailer and i am sobbing
legitimately got emotional i couldn't look at the screen the whole time lol
omg i had goosebumps and just so many tears especially the funeral scene!
can't wait  kinda mad i know were gonna finish it in a day tho 
same. i'm going to watch it so many times so i can find new things. i'm hoping for a movie (&amp; that it wouldn't be overkill!)
yesss hahaha that's the solution, just watch it over &amp; over



withdrawal is real smh
oh so now you complaining? interesting
you gone get this frustration or nah if nah...hush it up!!!

exactly
ctfu



how many award-winning dishes or tasting menus have cooked green pepper? probably zero.
like...bell pepper? or any?
green and cooked. tastes like the 80s.
saison did a gourmet version of a jalapeo popper once. that was green and cooked.
i mean cooked green bell pepper not jalapeno. overpowers &amp; kills meat dishes/sauce. other peppers/colors/fresh/sparingly ok
yeah, that's why i asked. it's often a filler vegetable. maybe in new mexico?



me?
mmhmm
i haven't nutted since last wednesday /thursday. i'm on lock down by bryant as far as that goes lmao. he said i gotta hold it
i know!!i wanna edge, but i know if i do imma hit the wrong pressure point and explode!
 screw that, i'm gonna edge lmao... at least i'll get a small bit of relief without nutting. i just need to stroke my dick
lol i'm scared.



welp see you tonight cleveland!! #rallytogether
you going to the game or just going downtown? we'll be at tilted kilt by 3. stop in
going to the game. and sounds good i'm not leaving till 2 tho
how'd you manage tickets this late
stubhub lol
jesus 



did i mention? im in love with switching positions wanna f**k you in the kitchenimma hit it from beside,he dontits a shame he dont 
nasty 
lmaooo stfu
no lol
you be doing the do 
never  to  screwing who ? i'll wait 



hoy tara englishan tayo! hahahahahaha
sure sure 
so what's up men? hahahahaha
like. i'm staring at the ceiling cause i'm lying down 
lazy day? get up and do something! (putahrages ang hirap jusq mali pa ata sinasabi ko) hahahaha
hahahaha . no... it's 3:41am right now and i got home from work like 3 hours ago.. 



i'm over here fighting for javale...and then he goes out there and gets banged on the second he checks in
because getting dunked on equates to being a productive player right? lol... okay
did someone recently dunk on u? lol all i'm saying is i'm routing for the guy to be a rim protector
olajuwon got dunked on, bogut get dunked on. getting dunked on =/= being bad rim protector. still undecided on javale tho
i can't put olajuwon and javale mcgee in the same convo..i don't care what we are talking about...but iq plays a big role into this
sure. i agree with that. can't agree with varejao seeing court before mcgee - even with better iq, he brings nothing to table









get tf out my bed
you get tf out of my bed
last time i checked, you sleep in my bed
brb getting dad to call upd



retweeted that
guess i gotta pick a new 2k team
more than half the roster has the catch and shoot badge. and yes the way teams perform in real life affect the video game
i'm not good at the game anyway 
i know. i've witnessed the bs. "how you dunk?" i tell you and you go underneath the basketball and shoot
i already forgot how to dunk tbh. i get good at it and then forget



discovered the dark side of twitter in a hashtag game filled w humor, then stuffed w antisemitism and racism. i wish for equality &amp; respect.
the same people must moonlight as trolls on my youtube vids. apparently i am jew who is working for the illuminati. who knew?!
i ignore trolls except on halloween. then, i give them candy. i learned they have their own issues and one of them isn't me.
i admit i play with my trolls. i can't help it.



but agreed on the advice.



all have a theology, what we think to be true of gosh, &amp; a creed (written or unwritten), what we say to be true of gosh. what informs it?
excellent question. what do you believe the answer to be?
sola scriptura.
i believe it to be the objective truth. (not my interpretation of it) but it stands safely outside my subjectivism, &amp;...
it's what i keep going back to. yes gosh reaches thru to me by experience &amp; other means, but scripture is my home base.
like the bumpers in a bowling alley! 



good morning #cowboysnation 

hiiiiii
what up sick
i'm better dang it 
 about time



good morning.
yawns. hands you coffee
&lt;3 ::purr:: how you doing this morning?
good. trying to wake up. how are you?
about the same, it's early here. :) i hope your day is a good one though.
awww. hope you day is good as well cutie



so these girls got suspended.. lol next time anybody says the n word on twitter or snap is getting snitched on by me to their principle. 
regardless of race. yes i'm tf petty bc those girls did not deserve to get suspended when all y'all say that word on the dang daily !
i don't say "nigger" on the daily....
aye! thank you for not using a derogatory term to your friends and not cry abt it when white people do in the same manner 
people are saying a word that their ancestors used as they oppressed, enslaved, and raped african americans. it is not the same.
that's exactly it! so why is it okay for black people; the same race that the slur was used towards in every derogatory way,



i'd like my 28 dollars back
coulda hit me up i'm good at that crap
 screw really i want to die idk if it's just  screwed bc of the maker or bc o built it wrong :/
tbh i've put together all my ikea crap by myself so... next time hit a girl up
 screw ok i woll i might need to buy something else to build n like im bad at it like i cant even put lego things togeteher
girl i got you



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*
ooops
dog cleaned cat's bowl. this went on for a couple days before the cat sat on my head and made her complaint clear



i'm 25 and never been to the pumpkin patch
let's go
i ain't gay
we can double date
i have no one to date josh
yes you do



for the record and i have not and probably will not ever smoke crack
probably
what
you said you will "probably" never smoke crack and i thought it was funny
i don't know the future man. who knows what circumstances i will find myself in.
if you ever find yourself in a situation where you are about to be a crack fiend message me i will help



bestie bestie 
yes bestie bestie? 
i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you, i miss you
no dude i miss you! it's not even funny anymore 
when you come down sleep over? have some one on one bestie time? 
yes for sure it's been way too long 



i've had four bowls of cheerios this morning ama
uncomfortably full? can you feel your cholesterol dropping?
no and no, sadly.
darn! i will record these notes for research
note: i use 2% milk
i will need to find subjects consuming with skim and non-dairy. the soy milk subject () does not report either as well.



what's all ya sext beasts up to tonight?
gettin' old!   what, it's a hobby.
whaaat not writing while getting old?
i've been slacking, true.  world needs more text of muscle balloonification, really.  it's my niche.
yes your work makes the world a better place :u
i've gotten some thoughts from your work in that regard that i really need to type out, one of these days.  thanks!
aw thanks!



wish i could memorize stuff after reading it once smh
that's because your mind doesn't care about what your reading lol.
it kinda does and it kinda doesn't because i actually find this stuff that i'm reading interesting lol
we'll see it's not 100%. yeah best way to memorize stuff is like review notes like an hour three or four times a day.
yeah i need to start going over my notes at least twice a day i just hate studying lol
it sucks man but itll be worth it.
it does but you're right bro it will be worth it at the end!



i finally got mystic messenger &amp; i'm obsessed!! 
yay i am so glad you got it!  i love that game!!!!
what routes have you played?
so far i have started zen, i have completed 707 and jumin.  i have to start zen over because i am so many days behind.
i have 2 days left of zen &amp; 4 for jumin. i rlly want to do 707's bc he hilarious but i heard his route is best saved for last 
i couldn't wait i just played it!  707's route gives a lot away about the story.
haha that's how i felt about jumin - i couldn't wait, i just bought the hg! gonna try to hold out on 707 &amp; hope it's worth it 



i think i know what i'm gonna dress up as this weekend 
you're grounded though ?
they can't stop me 
&amp; you said "honestly imma stay home saturday night" you gonna get caught up
 me get caught up? psssshh yeah right, lol i'm not gonna stay home
i know you cant stay away from a party 
 yes i can wth lol smh whatever bye!!



so, so you think you can tell heaven from hell, blue skies from pain.can you tell a green field from cold steel rail?a smile from a veil?
i have a pt that shaves his eyebrows &amp; reminds me of the wall.... #psychissues
oh wow! that film still gets me. been in my head because of the election and how close trump is to being a fascist.
it's a clbuttic for sure! a clockwork orange too! those 2 movies' metaphors sum up all of my fears for this country!! 
yea it's roger waters and kubrick territory and it freaks me the  screw out!
exactly!! some crazy foreshadowing crap right there!!
i just hate the nazi rhetoric and #kkk connections this campaign has conjured through trump's camp.



anyone wanna help me paint my room?
ya
bless up for the saint inside you.
when u tryna paint ??
now?
actually ??
no i have to work at 7 



thanks getter for a great night :)
lol still can't @ him   plus he's still a dick
hes still a dick and i dont wana @ him anyway but credit where credit is due and i genuinely enjoyed his set :)
did he really throw down?
no forreal it was fun. lots of zomboy lots of snails
when u put those 2 together you're bound to have a good night maybe i should go to one of his events
i recommend it. he briefly played some hip hop luckily i had to take a crap just then :)



i want you all to myself i swear.
but this dick for everybody
whyyyyyy are you always bothering me 
umm do you know what your face looks like
what does it look like 
a  screwing gorgeous time
 thank you but i'm not about play w/ you.



guess what son...
what
remember the other day how we was taking about how fiya my phone looked without a case
that idiot shattered huh? lmao
yea son
"imma put a case on it soon" they said
 screw you



please gosh don't listen to the song "entropy" while doing thermo hw it'll stress u out the chorus is "calculate the entropy" im not even
how's the pset this week
wrote a stressful physics song
i'm gonna check it out brb
 screwen warned u
it's p catchy
now put it on repeat and do this week's statmech



edibles will ruin your life

ruin

they're fun though lol try one
i don't do drugs
i know what you did this morning



wya broda
at the house man. wbuttup
i was trynna see if you trynna burn it. but you ain't in town :/
crap id be down but i just got back to the house lol i'd say slide but i know that's a mission
if you change your mind hit me lol i got 2 blunts
ight i'll hit you man if i head that way
if not tomorrow when lugo cuts me lol



2 more days idiotes
 screwing lucky butt
youre not going?!?
no dude i wanted to do  screwing bad ! but i can't i need to save money lol everyone is telling me to go but to much money already
what am i gunna do without you
 we where supposed to turn up before you leave to basic training! hey but i know someone's you like is going 
im upset. you my turn up buddy frfr &amp; who dat



why are you still up. get sleep. dam
wat time is it there?
in north dakota, usa it is 1:54 am
sorry for busy with my work.its 1606 in china,same district with shanghai
so dinner time. wish i could eat real chinese food. not what get in the us
haha,what kinda chinese food do you like?and wats look like in us?
we have general to chicken. which isn't even sold in china. it's good though.



finally omw home cant wait to get on my bed
that's how i be feeling b trust
i feels u b lol
i don't get home till like  2 or 3 in the am 
dangn lol
two more days b 
littty



im not  screwing perfect
no one is
huh?
no one's perfect
ik that but that's what some people won't and you can't achieve that without working to attempt to be perfect
sad but true 
they don't want you while you grinding /:



"i believe that loss and emptiness and confusion often give way to new fullness and wisdom."
i just love this who said it

wait really? so how come you had to put quotes around it why didn't you just state your belief asking for a friend
hahahahah you caught me ;)
lmao u r fakebut ily
alright but our date tomorrow is off gn



hi
call
no monitor
i meant on ur phone
no phone
okay  screw u was gonna send u this new monitor i just got, but i guess not.
im sureeee u dont like me anymore



i'm trying so hard to keep my eyes open 
go to sleep
i need to! i slept like 3 hours last night 
random butt eye emoji but whoa three hours who are you
i know!!! midterms is killing me  i'm going to fix my schedule starting next week 
nah you good
your twitter name is accurate




ugh yes 
i cant wait :-) i don't have a costume yet tho 
i have to make mine still 
help me paint my face n b lazy?? not only did i hear you were braid queen but also makeup 
yes of course!!!  i got u
thank you so so so much 



how do you feel about pll ending
lmao i chose the first one cos i rlly haven't been catching up like i said i would lo
but omg the snap of keegan and troian hugging and crying killed me
is it their last day of shooting already?
today was keegans. i think tomorrow is the last last day? like almost all the sets are gone
oh man i crey i just watched shay's snap they were all signing yearbooks and everything lol
yea lol and they got errbody jackets  wonder if lucy got one... hmmmm  lololol



you can name your dumb kid alfred or edward but i can't name mine thelbert, rdwulf, or angeltheow? anglo-saxon double standards suck!
my second is actually edmund which is like halfway there.
edmund is a good name. lot of good edmunds
hillary. i dig burke. the bastard.
big fan of edmund, the earl of rutland who died in like i don't know 1458 or something
wasn't he a big ol jerk who was set to be king but then got himself killed in battle? cause a lotta edmunds are like that.
he was cool but yeah he did get killed in battle. and his brothers were both kings, so maybe he would have gotten around to it



it's intimidation, bullying and str8 up hate speech. but of course it's not cuz well... you know!
bullying? standing up for the rights and health of our community is bullying to you? pathetic
again, not at all what ur doing! the house is burning &amp; ur worried about the outfit!  this ain't about you
the house isn't what's burning, it's your justifications for supporting an anti-gay ticket.
trump isn't anti gay! u keep believing what you want but remember, were still #gaysfortrump!!
while you sit out the fight supporting our lgbt community, you are welcome that the lgbt majority aren't.
do u even see how self centered you are? you think ur the community? gays are so much more than sexuality! sad



boulder council study session now on to pollard site (boulder junction)! just to explore scenarios to develop an rfp.
city owned lot last in phase i, chance to fit in but also fill in some gaps
current boulder junction development units - 91% are two or less bedrooms
(which seems fine unless you have more than two kids? every unit doesn't have to be a forever unit)
coburn says costs to build now $347/sq ft without land costs!! (but large infrastructure costs with parking)
discussing now the parking max 1 space per residential unit; but debating rather parking spots are truly unbundled.
so incompletely unbundled.



i have some pretty long snapchat streaks, but i'm most proud of my timehop streak.
our streak broke 
and whose fault is that 
yours!!!
i disagree.
 i answered! i think it was your fault!
you're making up stuff



i dropped my phone again today and my crap is so  screwed up and if that doesn't describe how pissed i am i'm not sure wtf will.....
is that why you didn't text me back?? lol
totally forgot hahaha you should know how great of a texter i am!!
a++++ texter!!! dm me why you said that tho
i'll text u when i'm off my phones on 37 :(((
12hrs later.... 
hahahaha i was sooooo agitated and i saved myself the hurt bc i knew you weren't gonna text back bc u weren't even awake



about to be in the city for 5 days 
who care ugly mf
i'm staying at y'all house 
that's what you think!!
make sure you got some koolaid and snacks in that idiot 
boy!! you will sleep in the bathtuband no!!!!!! i'll make sure everything is gone
 you got me  screwed up i was gone get everybody food



jordan's  screwing retarded
i'll beat your butt 
i'm waiting
i'm near the gym fight me pussy
be there in 5 min idiot 
going to the teachers lounge
i'll be waiting



i don't want to get my hopes up 
girl 
yeah 
idk how to feel about it  only because i don't want you to get hurt again. just be careful
i don't know how i feel about it either !!  and honestly i know i'm putting my guard up y me conoce tan bien that i'm like 
has he given you a legit explanation at least?! i'm curious to know
i'll tell you guys everything on saturday !



my sister needs dummy punted into a pile of cow crap.
uh oh, which one?!
the older one but the younger one could use it too
 i feel that way about most of my family
the struggle is real 
i just keep rereading the original tweet and laughing way too hard lol
hahahahah don't pee yourself this time 



okay i made up my mind...no more eating out for two weeks, and i'm saving all the money i can lmfao
u sure u been saying this smh lol
watch 
show me then 
i'm two weeks
and if u do eat out in those 2 weeks 
i'll buy you some food too but what if i don't 



whatd you get in 351
82/100 let's gooooooo woooooo !!!!!
lol how did you do on the test
omg sorry i thought i replied to your other tweet already xd i got 84 *-*
i think we deserve froyo . but i'm still so full lol .
lool im hungry xd
we should make smores sometime lol



do folk even know nor care jane?
i think young people have been raised to feel guilty about their middle-clbutt life instead of being raised to try to achieve more
it's a cop out jane. back in our day we would get the crap kicked out of us. now, parents pacify children.
switch or hand jane....choose!!!!
when i was young, i got the switch.
yes, as did i. and it hurt like a mother  screwer!!!! i still have the marks!!! but, it made me the good man i am now.
sometimes jane in our lives we have to take pain &amp; hurt to try to  convey a message.



"daddy's waitin' for 'ya, little girl""shut the  screw up man"
which one is this
freddy's dead
does he drive a bus at the start of that
yes,
ifhdg i had that movie on vhs
lkjds im laughing oh my gosh



isn't she sleeping?
yup she is 
i thought so
go back to sleep..it's still early 
ok bye love you twin (the most) 
hdjkgdydmyyndy i love you the most! 
 we can talk about this later hahahaha ok i'm not going to answer anymore



mom is making steaks and hash brown cbutterole tonight.. i picked a good day to visit 
me too!!!:)
not invited
am too ron said
well you have to watch survivor with us
perfect
and you can't make fun of us for getting super serious about it



im watching this joseline hernandez vid still mad stevie j talmbout she fakes bein puerto rican. yall always do that to afrolatinas.
stevie j &amp; the rest of yall such ethnocentric trash u cant even tell joseline hernandez raps in spanish in an unfakeable rican accent.
as usual its a bunch of ppl who have no clue wtf being rican or dominican is coz they not latinamerican. but swearing they can invalidate
joseline hernandez speaks a whole nother language like a latin-caribbean native: spanish. but u talmbout shes faking bein latina  coz black
ppl are not only  screwing oblivious to afrolatinas context, they can literally see us in the thick of it&amp; dunno how to process it. still deny
'her real last names bettencourt so shes not afrolatina'. do u ignit buttholes know how many bettencourts there are in latinamerica?
every single bettencourt i ever knew has been puerto rican. every single one



me &amp; borris were play fighting &amp; i accidentally punched him in the mouth 
that's not nice...
it wasn't my fault. he needs to stop play fighting with me 
don't get to serious cousin haha
i know. i felt bad 
gosh haha. you hit him with that left or right? haha
right



please keep my dad in your prayers. 3rd time called down to the hospital this month, hoping this is the time the transplant finally happens.
surgery is on! please continue the prayers, now comes the long part! gosh is good.
i'm at the hospital. dad's surgery started around 2-3 am. please keep those prayers up for a tough 8-10 hour transplant. gosh is good.
praying so hard man! im happy for your family that he's finally getting the surgery he needs.
thank you so so much! we're praying hard down here!
what hospital are y'all at?
henry ford off grand boulevard in detroit



working on a 40 word summary of my thesis. pretty sure i can make a limerick out of this
a man named tim had a bucket
tim found himself at the market
talking to peeps he'd just met
he'd look at their phones.which of course everyone owns
and found they couldn't live without it
++ took unexpected twists and turns could not believe the ending would thesis again ++



guys will dead butt have you thinking they love you and the next minute they are  screwing with someone else.
heh?
wut
this about ur life or someone else's?
it's in general. all the threads i've read the past couple of days lol
just checking 
 thanks for checking lol



i heard someone saying my name but no one up 
that's scary
it's the devil
maybe it is maybe it ain't
we could never no
don't worry gosh gots you
amen



just had one of my worst breathing attacks or whatever you want to call them. it sucks having to gasp for air.
panic attack... welcome to a daily struggle of someone with anxiety
it's not a panic attack for me. it's a cold attack basically. you know my situation it's one of those situations 
no i'm so lost
you were at my house when i had one where i can't breathe and crap just hits me all at once. and i need my inhaler.
i've never witnessed anything like that. 
you were there but it was ocean who tended to me. that's why i'll forever be in her debt 



i really don't know how i'm going to be up for my 8am tomorrow
i really dont know how ima be up for my 12:45
11:45**
well, my day will end sooner than yours !!!
yea but at least ill still be in bed by the time your day is done
ur dumb bye
i know you are but what am i...



honestly this month break of not playing shows and staying in making music has been so  screwing awesome and productive v much needed
same dude. i was bummed i had no gigs for a min, but it's actually hella valuable studio and chill time
i think i chilled to hard i forgot i djayed lol
good lol
i even feel good too it's awesome
i got to spend time w people i never see, spent time w my cats, made dope music, read comics and watched movies, craps good
lol i just got to play video games see some of the homies shows work on a lot of tunes and eat good with my family



niggas really dont have crap to offer but dick and headaches . you cant even put air in my tires
who cant
half of ya.
im not wit that half lls not at all
you know where the antifreeze go ? can you change a flat tire ?
im not a mechanic but i can get it done. thats simple crap
lol okkkk i hear u 



sick af but can't afford to miss work man  i'm so dang sad
you can miss one day. you need rest!
that's 8 hours gone down the drain i don't think i can let them go
 what's more important? plus it's not like you're broke...
 okay "mom"
lol it's the motherly instinct in me  but frfr, get you some rest so you'll feel better
i can see it  i guess i'll make a doctors appointment 



seeing all the sorority houses with halloween decor really buffs my holiday spirit
wait which houses have you seen?
wtf idk just look for the greek letters lol
you should decorate! isn't sheena doing a carving pumpkin thing?
i'm so busy rn tho d:
i literally see you on discord playing league
ya mom i played league, hop off 



lol bye world i'm about to me murdered for being a  screwing idiot. it was nice knowing ya. 
what did you do??
i can't tell anyone. it's so dumb i'll probably lose all my friends
you better tell me  #textme
lololol you are swarm to secrecy like literally no one can know
bruh how many times have you sworn me to secrecy!?  i know the rules
i have like a couple things to tell you but we'll just start with the stupid one



all the tv shows are on an hour early in arizona. it's so confusing! 
we are on the same time zone right now though
i know! and that makes it's even more confusing! but i missed "this is us" because it was on at 8 not 9.
eww!!! does she have dish tv?
comcast! but i swear it wasn't like this when i was here a month ago.
interesting hmmm
yeah. no idea but it's confusing.



so the line up for clbuttic weekend is blac youngsta, jeezy, gotti, gucci and lucci....
when is it?
weekend of november 18-20th
sounds like the get down
every year
might go this year
you shoulddddd, hotels cheap rn too



i have 7 ongoing series right now. i distinctly remember telling myself never to have more than 3 going at once. apparently i didn't listen.
the question is, do you want to listen?
i want to be organized and have order in my life! :)
then stop working on a few? xd
some will be ending next year for sure. it just surprised me when i stopped to count them just now.
haha, so too far in to just stop, huh?
yep. i'll be doing a bunch more standalone books next year. no plans to start any new series.







hiii 
hello
bdi mushkil se online aate ho
yup ... busy busy
where where 



out here in the club in full on patriots gear.. random: hey dude are grownkowski?me: nah fam... i'm drunkowskiwild
why are you such a disappointment.....
it's what i do best 
that's why your idiot butt got left 
sooo happy yo idiot butt is back though 
luv u bae 
your the wind beneath my wings 



to me this girl alliance is similar to hayden/enzo/lane. they have their funny moments but boring to see them run the game. #bbott
and theyre def not, or else lnj woulda left the first 2 weeks
what are you babbling about? nothing comparable.
that the brigade got non allies out the whole game, even their side allies only had one loss
fool, this is a different big brother! doesn't matter who wins hoh. #bbott those girls are sticking together. girl power!
you're clearly confused. i'm fully team ballsmashers. i'm saying they're not boring like the brigade
my bad!



my birthdays next weeek and im not even juiced or anything 
turn up 
my birthdays on a tuesday:(
even better!!! turn up on tuesday 
i just wana have like 2 bottles and 10 blunts tbhh but i cant , and ima have a crapty as birthday:( its been a crapty year
why can't you? as long you spend your bday with friends it's all good have fun drink and take a shot for me and go smoke
youre forgetting that i live in tracy now i cant just go out there bc i have school that day too  and ughh ima get pee tested 



good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
good morning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ill see you tmrw!!!!!!
wait what raves are you doing this weekend
not the same raves as y'all but lauren said we were pregamning together and ur coming to the edm brunch
i will be there with multiple $2 bills ready to go 
things im so here for



but i just have to get the fence done before this weekend &amp; she can move into her huge new house &amp; big yard w/ pretty trees
what where you moving to now girl? lol
cantonment
oh to maw maws ?
no. i'm moving into my great grandmas old house
i'm surprised you didn't wanna stay in walnut hill
not with me working all the way in marcus pointe. an hour drive to work every morning? no thx.



thinking about turning my phone off while i'm in puerto rico on holiday, but idk if i can commit to that....
try it for a day :)
i thought you were!
heheeeeeee! social media gives me anxiety hahahaaaaaaaa but i have to check up on you.
text me some time :)
okay :)
good bc i miss you



definitely didn't go to english to get an extra hour of sleep. yeah.
if you would have went to bed at the time you said. you would have been fine
you didnt have to come for me like this. its the first time i ever missed this clbutt. wont happen again dang

i really tried to go to bed at a reasonable time but what had happened was.....
i'm about to text you
ighttt



morning paddy listening from florida today. how is buddy any different then danny williams when he took down the flags???
down with ball was ya kirk lol!!!
hell no ball sucks was hoping for a better outcome full shut down
ya, this project is a mess
not fit it's not biggest waste of money and watch i bet hydro quebec will end up with it in the end
probably, probably be better if if they do
quebec will end up with it for a trade like they said 100mgwts and the big land bet it's been considered



i'm so excited for this saturday
and speaking of, does anyone want to go for a hike on saturday morning? please be advised that i am in no shape whatsoever.
i'm going too, ia! :)

what? i really am. be happy for me. 
okay buddy
hope i wake up in time tho.



it's okay, you're all talk and no walk. get over yourself 
tag em no balls
can't tag them, i'm blocked 
 looks like you win then
nah. no winning in this situation, i'm still annoyed by it. i'm probably the loser 
if they block you it's a win. always 
i'll try to think like that 



i think i'm done with twitter and trying to fit into somewhere i obviously do not belong.
you belong where ever you want to be pup. *noses*
not really. i don't belong anywhere. and my constant trying to fit in...and failing proves that.
then don't try to fit in. just be yourself, because you're already awsome. ^^
alfa, honestly there isn't a single shred of good in me.
yes there is. you may not see it right this second because of how you feel, but it is there and i see it.
alfa, what little good you used to see in me is gone. finished, used up and never to be seen or heard from again.



hello from the pool bc i don't have my key
you don't need a key to get into the hotel just for your room loooolllll guud luk
i walked all the way up to the room only to realize my wallet wasn't on me smh i'm so upset
to the rescue #probablysleeping
nah i can sleep outside i'm used to sleeping outside
i'm scared for you.
there was a frog out here he'll protect me



i paid $600 for sneaks, so baby watch my feet...
yu getting them 3's?
ykt.
mane im tryna get that
i know, moms told me.. what's stopping you?
she aint gone be able to go inna store &amp; if she get it from the person it from price 
well you go get em...



romanuk can be such a moron, andersen also had a defence that didn't turn the puck over every shift!!!! #tmltalk
how many shots has he faced today, we've out possessed tampa by a mile, andersen is blatantly bad right now
that's your opinion,it doesn't matter how many shots there are,it's the quality of them,and mistakes by our d are very bad!
it's not an opinion it's a fact, his positioning, movement, etc... he's not playing as he did in anaheim, reimer wouldn't
it's not some surprise that andersen's not playing his best,but he's also not getting much help,that's very clear #tmltalk
each and every time, you think good teams don't give up 5-6 high danger chances a game? the lighting did, bishop answered
ok man,we have different opinions on this,i don't deny he's let in goals he shouldn't,but also not getting much help from d errors




mann i been tryna see ha .. tell niya her mommy playin 
wyo today or tomorrow you know where i star i moved out .. 
watever when it comes to neicey i'm free both days really &amp; yea i'm up on game already
okay you can come see her or keep her for some hours 
ima come over then take ha wit me 
ight come thru tomorrow gball , my mom wanna see her 



the fact i gotta work in the am
carry yo butt to sleep
 screw up
lol i'm good
you not good nigga
lol you heard what i said mf
lmao relly you don't scare nobody 



"zero percent" is the best mcr b-side no argument
good post
makes me feel like i'm in a vidya game 10/10 would recommend
it's okay but (drag me) tbp's b sides defined every aspect of my emo butt adolescence
nah i fully get that. kill all my friends + heaven help us are iconic
2 iconque
also the rap in my way home. gerard speed singing is aesthetique



can i just sleep thru one  screwin night?!!
new one for me last night, kept waking up not breathing feeling like someone was suffocating me so that was cool
oh yes that's my exact issue!! only happened twice last night, so it was a "good" night.
nothing like waking up refreshed !! and by refreshed i mean like i haven't slept in 3 days or months
my eyes are burning with sleepiness!!!
maybe the water main will break at work tn
is there a way to like make that happen or...?



after we trade for boogie straight to the finals 
false 
we bout to reclaim our thrown in the east
did you forget about who is still in the east ? 
can't forget him but his time is over
his time not over till he retire 
na it's over after we get one more all star



the art style of dbz combined with the animation of db super would be lit. i just hate the modern art style on db super
i wish they would go back to showing blood/cursing, instead of being a kids show lmao
that would be great but they'll lose out on money and viewership
thats so annoying though. thats how the show was from the beginning.
i know but the show came out in thw late eights early 90's. censorship wasn't as strict as it is now smh
the  screw censoring cartoons and art in general should be  screwing illegal  screw
i agree to a certain extent. they should have a channel dedicated to adult themed cartoons. like adultswim but its own channel



hi lady ... how was your first night back at work???
it was good deb, thankfully my work is mental, not physical, plus they hired 2 new girls 4 my shift, so it's easier, less alarms
yay!!!! i'm soooooo happy for you 
feels good 2 be back &amp; not sitting on my butt at home. now i'm sitting on my butt &amp; getting paid for it, lol thanks deb, how r u? 
lol i can imagine it is very nice for you!! i'm great....just enjoying the  &amp; my cubbies in the world series finally 
my husband &amp; myself are both rooting for your cubbies, tom loves how they all sing the cub song after a win!!! 
awww yay!!! we need it!!! i live just a few blocks from the stadium so you can imagine the excitement around here  



fans like me have enough loyalty to this team to endure rf's conservative approach to rebuilding but i don't think the market can sustain it
there comes a point where i genuinely wonder, do the #canes care about fans? wrt the on-ice product, it's not just a team, it's a business.
canes are one decent goalie away from being among the nhl's best young teams.
then we need to find that goalie. the fans were not happy abt ward's resigning &amp; they won't be happy if we blow the home opener
exciting doesn't cut it if all we do is lose lose lose.
this market needs playoff hockey badly. perfect time for it, too: state sucks, panthers suck. we need something to believe in.
canes are a playoff quality team at fwd &amp; dmen; both goalies would clear waivers



ok 
hi pal
oh hi buddy
how are you doing?
sleepy and missing houston are two constant feelings. how are you?
i feel you on the first one and ready to meet the little one soon.
yes!! you, your sweet lil lady, and ryan need to come visit! we have plenty of room for all of y'all to stay!






been going! wanna play tomorrow and do some faceits?
yeah. i get done with work at 8am, so in 6 hours, then i gotta sleep for a bit, then i'll be good
ight sounds good just let me know when you're up tomorrow i can get some scrims and crap.
what's the team name
don't know yet.
how good are the players



might have to hit up mod pizza. it sucks that it's all the way up north though.
is that place good?
it's really good.
hmm ok lol imma have to try it!
you should. it's definitely better than pizza hut or domino's.
whatchu get?
the mad dog. it has sausage, ground beef and pepperoni on it. plus i add mushrooms.



what's the move
match 
wya
crib i need some though i aint got it
i'm on 21st
me too link up
i'm not mobile but wbuttup



good night karen 
good night terri, sleep well 
still wide awake &amp; got to be up in three hours watching cher on youtube 
i'm wide awake cause i'm at work, keeping the world safe &amp; saving lives, lol 
were are you working
i work for an alarm monitoring company here in nj, it's only 2 miles from my house. we are open 24/7/365 
how do you stay awake all night don't think i could do that job every night.



kawhi is the best player on the court at this current moment
mvp year
better than your girlfriend westbrook
if he keeps playing like that yeah
no hes just the better player in general
chill thot
calm down cp3 is still better than westbroke



my friends just reminded me that there's a horrific picture of me blacked out at an after prom from high school somewhere on the internet 
i have one of u pbutted out in ur own car while me and lashayla went to steggs
i'm just trying to live
i wanna live with u
bishhh u livin more than me i miss you and your friend from the party the down butt idiot
you don't invite me to hang anymore
it's midterms week :-(



i dont know why ppl study geometry
loool i like trigonometry tho
i like algebra.. complications ..im good at that
algebra is love
replace pizza with algebra
biryani
 wings &gt; anyday



hello how is everyone doing today?
don't act like you have friends on twitter you're talking to...
if i don't have friends then why do so many people follow me huh
spam bots. also no big deal or anything, but i have a few more followers than you...
i've lived in one place my whole life so that's my excuse
are you saying that living in south dakota helped get me more followers???
ofc you had people you knew there



the cops hate andrea man
what happen
not just one cop, but two got her azz
omg whyyy lhh
snapping and driving, swerving all over the place, speeding  must i go on
lhh oh my gosh! and she didn't get one ticket?
you can talk to the felon



sooo because you got me hooked on #thisisus - i need you to hurry up and watch tonight's episode so we can talk about it!
i'm staying up late to watch this just for you!
ahhhh did you cry?!
why is he on the fireplace?! noooooo!!!
i'm so sad! he was such a cool dad! did they divorce and then he died? was alcoholism to blame? so many questions!
did they divorce?! i know mandy is with the bff. could be drama, could be ok.
i have so many questions.



lowkey wanna cry i just re pierced my nipple 
yourself or you went to get them re done ????
no by myself just now 
i know that hurt !!!!!omg!!!
hell yessss
omg i couldn't
hell ya next time i'm just gonna let it close lol



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
well i made it 51 minutes without crying. a new record. i was so close to getting to the end. dang you #thisisus !
does it count itself out if you were crying before,(a stubbed toe) stopped, then cried again? 26 minutes. #thisisus
was the second waterworks from the show or still the stubbed toe?
toe~then stopped~then started again during the show.
hmm. that may just be fortuitous timing?
i'm gonna take it as a loss then try again. 26 min isn't absurdly bad. plus i'm a chic.



sarina paris - look at us #tb
pissed u never came.
nap said yall weren't coming earlier then when yall hit me up and said yall are it was 11 already lmao
so wha? ur still awake 
yeah but i was already in bed
how often do i come out to salem to see u, rome &amp; albi tho?
i wasnt getting up unless we going out to eat thats what i told arlene bc i havent ate lol but she said yall already got food



my thumb is throbbing in pain ..that cut was no joke, basically tore off the top layer of skin..good thing it wasn't much
i got cut last thursday a piece of steel sliced a chunk of meat off my hand lol
fuuuuck lol u get stitched up?
na there was nothing to stich so i'm just letting it heal lol
how bad was it, u got pics? lmao
it was bad but it's looking better now lol i'll take you a pic tomorrow cuz i don't have any haha
lol sounds good






it's so easy to box away the opposition when you only have two boxes to choose from.
third parties are a waste of time and have always proven as such. its always been a two-party system. facts of life.
i don't play by the rules. i'm funny that way.
you've also never elected anyone outside of either the gop or dnc. guess you're funny that way as well.
guess you don't validate me or complete me.
guess you're just another squishy, uninformed garden-variety political neophyte.



4:12 am
night owl lol
 work nigga 
easy money get that fool. liam keeping me up watching tv smh 
i need to see him soon, next weekend !
come get him bro 
next weekend lol.



i forgot my headphones for the gym this morning and it was surprisingly pleasant
i listened to r.e.m. in the car in your honor
they are on my work out playlist. twice actually
the automatic for the people album is my absolute favorite. the whole thing. i had the tape &amp; it was yellow.
it's probably not the "popular opinion" but i always go back to new adventures in hi-fi.
e-bow the letter has to be in my top 5 of all of their songs, for sure.
mine too. and leave. i love the guitar work on that song.



fairly-to-very embarrbutted how many times i have listened to grigio girls.
i'm just not feeling this record. a little disappointing after 3 years off. million reasons isn't bad, the one song i like.
i think it's better than artpop, which is a low bar. beyond that, yeah, could be better for sure. just this one weird earworm.
i think joanne is missing a big dance hit. but maybe she's truly done with the days of the sounds of the fame/fame monster.
i hope not. cynically, doubt joanne will spawn any hits, which hopefully will leave her scurrying back to the dancefloor for #6
i've changed my mind, some good tracks have grown on me.
which?



the audacity 
sound like a girl
sound like u omd
md you gay
md fagget
gay butt nigga
md brokey



sometimes i think my mum's a bot, then not, then i think she's a bot then not
maybe she's just delusional?
i want to wait and see on this i've felt so similar but i have no proof
whenever i try to explain something controversial to her she never gets it and she's a smart woman -
i mean what kind of human can be this ignorant?
does it seem intentional? like she intentionally keeps herself ignorant so she doesn't have to actually think about things
maybe your perspective hasn't been tainted with miseducation and complacence. that gets in the way in a lot of cases



your tweet seemed somewhat humane, but the last part was an attack on your behalf. don't @ me stupid crap like that
don't victimize yourself raul. just don't. just chill.
how about you message or call me, and thoroughly explain any frustration you may have. other than that, nothing will be solved
how about you don't tweet towards people, bashing them, publicly and there wouldn't be anything to be solved in the first place.
is that it? that's it? or is there anything else in your agenda worth mentioning? hm.
i don't know, is there?
no. i havnt had any complaints, can't fix anything if i don't know there's problem. all except for my twitter rampage, right?



pray for me...i have hell in me and i am fighting it with a vengeance.  i am trying to take the high road but...
hope you are ok hun! dnt let them win you stay being you're true self and continue taking the high road like you always do 
but i wanna @ that rat and tell him to choke on hiv infested cum sandwich!!!!
i feel u! i haven't @ the irrelevant bb houseguests yet but i sure was close! i'm trying to be somewhat positive but it is hard!!
#zaulie living their life. if they don't like them, fine! but why hate? it's burning me up on the inside. trying to calm down.
it's not even worth your energy! they are a nobody! whatever you decide to do though i got yo back!! 100% no questions asked! 
thanks boo



there's a hold on my account so i can't enroll for clbuttes... and i only have 2 days to do it smh
emergency contact?
yes!!! but i'm not the only one.. a few of my other friends from cal poly said they updated a week ago and its still there
no it's like everyone:/
that's so annoying..  do you have priority?
yeah i do. you?
i do! so it's only 2 days... hopefully everything works out 



happy birthday!
dang jay, the plug like that bro
you want me to give you a lil shout out?
lmao put your boy on
you went sky diving?
nah, just a cool butt picture
 i was gonna say ur lucky lmao, i wanna go so bad



i'm so sleepy.
schleep
i would lol if it were that simple.
lmao cant just close ya eyes and count sheep?
i'm at the er. might put my head in my lap lol but that's the best i got.
whoa, everything ok?
yah i think so.



today on twitter, i'd like to talk the butt as it relates to parasite lifecycles.any and all pictures will be sfw.
) did the movie dreamcatcher, which prominently features butt aliens.
these aliens enter through the mouth, consume their host, and exit through the butt in a gory fashion when done.
, who was on oxycontin at the time. opioid painkillers can make you constipated; may have inspired aliens
as gross, weird, &amp; horrifying as this lifecycle is, a lot of critters either make the butt their home or use it to complete their lifecycle
today, i am celebrating the critters who call butts their home.also, if you're pooping out living things, please see a doctor.
your psa tweets make me love twitter so. ;-)



i wanna go to del osso 
let's go 
yayyy
but when 
i'm free whenever 
we can go sunday when i get off?
yes please 



i feel awful 
you want me to make you some soup?
that actually sounds great lol
i've got you, do you want chicken noodle or potato?
chicken noodle :)
i'll see if i can make you some 
omg i love you, thanks girl



went to the gym now we just ordered pizza, its fine though bc it counteracts it
traitor
theres no yops here! but if you wanna send me some, that'd be cool too
like a ubake? in a freezer thingy??
yeah! you'd have to like 2 day ship though
lmao i will when i get a chance
you're so real



always stay humble and kind 
hey abi
lol hey
have u cleaned up my baby
nooooo  will you help me? 
i sure will. as long as emma got some candy left in that bag
lol she's always got candy. trust that   but you'll be the best fr. bc my mama won't help me 



really looking forward to being in washington in the next few days.
it's amazing!
what's your favorite spot?
jk seattle duh
we'll be there!
go to zeke's pizza! it's average! :d
hahaha i miss you. see you when i get back



lol gn.
shut up nerd call me already
you don't have my number or?
you don't remember saying you'd call me back or?
petty
who you? yea
 screw off



then stop
okay thank goodness
also exaid?
yup!
less then two hours of work and 1% battery on phone
oh dear
*nose boop*



i'm not ready for this episode fam
missed it sunday, and someone canceled my recording :)  i'm never up this late, but i'm staying up to watch replay at 3:30!
it's rough
started at 315.  20 minutes in and i'm already at a loss for words....
that...was disturbing.
i'm still in shock...it was unnecessarily brutal
thought glenn was toast a 100 times already, but abraham? thought there was more for his character bcuz of the biblical name



ppl will argue bc its in the comic blah blah thats why he died
and one of the few times the comic is followed, it's to kill the only asian character. like really?? bye.
lol but of course. unless he got something big in the works. there is no excuse
yeah exactly. i haven't heard any justification for his death that i even semi-agree with.
the light rumor is he is joining the dceu as nightwing
i would love for him to join the mcu or the dceu, but nightwing is romani and erasing a romani role wouldn't be okay
they are just going to cast someone white anyway. you already know. why not give it to him?



wow, this furore over the esc keys removal might last almost as long as the one about the headphone jackanyone remember that?
yup. it's why i decided i didn't want to upgrade until there are adaptors.
adaptors for what? the esc key?
oh. i was talking about the headphone jack.
thats what confused me. the adaptor comes in the box, no?
sorry. i spend a lot of time listening to music with my phone plugged into a powerbank. i know i'm an outlier.
aaah, ok. yeah, i didnt think there were many who did that a lot, but it sounds like its more common than i thought



if u don't know me or hang with me i feel bad for you bc i'm a great person and i'm funny af.
idiot where
idiot i miss u haven't seen you since that party lmao
aye round two this friday ;)
hit me up u know i'm down for whatever ayyy (;
text me then i'll hit you up
black out haha



so many words to absorb on the bio. i feel like sponge bob. scientist, i'll drop the mic there. unless it's scientology.
nix nein non on the "scientology."i'm a biologist, but work in petroleum.
which is bio. was hoping quantum mechanics. bio can get boring. how is that different than geological exploration?
my quantum mechanics experience is limited to the monte carlo simulation.
that's math
it's math, but more like determining where you're at in space and time; helps me help people improve decision-making.
most ppl would not see that as being helpful.



i cannot stop listening to #tiimyturner
i like it but it's hard to sing along to bc of the n word every 3 seconds
i just say it. i ain't ashamed!
omg  guess what guess wjat
???????
im coming to alabama for thanksgiving
we can't make it for christmas. if we can get off, we are going to try to come up for a day at thanksgiving. at least i am



twitter is so depressing tonight cause the cubs are losing 
go cards
go cards it is
you're welcome
i'm so happy you're a cards fan
i'm so happy you're not a cubbies fan
i have so much respect for you now



dame or kawhi for mvp maybe lebron bc he is lebron but dame &amp; kawhi are my top choices
don't leave out my boy russ like that man 
shii my bad lol you right bro! definitely those 3 but i don't think they'll win enough for him to win it ya know?
idkkk i think they win i dont know i think they'll win more than blazers
idk actually about dame either bc i don't think the blazers or thunder will be seeded higher than 6
it's stupid bc dame &amp; russ will both put up #s but if their team isn't ballin they ain't winning it's dumb
to get that mvp respect on a decent record team



so these girls got suspended.. lol next time anybody says the n word on twitter or snap is getting snitched on by me to their principle. 
regardless of race. yes i'm tf petty bc those girls did not deserve to get suspended when all y'all say that word on the dang daily !
i don't say "nigger" on the daily....
aye! thank you for not using a derogatory term to your friends and not cry abt it when white people do in the same manner 
people are saying a word that their ancestors used as they oppressed, enslaved, and raped african americans. it is not the same.
that's exactly it! so why is it okay for black people; the same race that the slur was used towards in every derogatory way,
to repeat that word to wdudever they want to and get a freebie for it? shouldn't they be the 1st ones to not use it at all?



i wish we didn't own a house so we can pack and leave to colorado. i love it out there 
girl, it's way to expensive out here
i'm sure we can manage, but a lot holds me back. idk if i could live without my mom 
i thought i couldn't , but here i am 
lmao i know but my kids  it's something we want to do. but there's so much we have to do before we make any decisions.
true , it's hard being away from family, but when you are away you find yourself being more happy then you ever thought you'd be
our mortgage is pretty high, but i meant like carlos has a good stable job.



how do you start your day off? meditation? yoga? running? let us know so we can share! #upgradeyourself
i start my day with prayer and a walk. #selfcare #wellbeing #natural #holistic
that sounds lovely! fresh air and fresh thoughts to start the day :)
how do you start your day?
with water and supplements ;)
i do those too. just after my walk. i need to get into the habit of having water first thing when i wake. it does a body good
it's such a simple yet effective thing to practice. keep a bottle beside your bed so you can't forget in the morning ;)



anger issues? he humiliated you, megyn. you're a joke, mk.
i don't watch that crazy hag!! what happened!! #teamnewt
she pressed gingrich on trump's remarks about women..
no one has brought that crap up today until her!
all she can talk about. her ratings are down, which is good.
will welcome her.
since cnn has no ratings, it may be a good fit.



i got fake people showing fake love to me
shut up
wbuttup andyyyyy
wbutt good?!
i miss your dude butt! when are you coming back ?
this weekend cuz
text me this weekend  and we can all hangout



how many award-winning dishes or tasting menus have cooked green pepper? probably zero.
like...bell pepper? or any?
green and cooked. tastes like the 80s.
saison did a gourmet version of a jalapeo popper once. that was green and cooked.
i mean cooked green bell pepper not jalapeno. overpowers &amp; kills meat dishes/sauce. other peppers/colors/fresh/sparingly ok
yeah, that's why i asked. it's often a filler vegetable. maybe in new mexico?
what amanda said. those stuffed green peppers (from the 70s/80s.)



so, what did you think about that episode -twd?
part that was horrific was panning the faces &amp; the fear that showed &amp; 15 or so minutes b4 knew-so intense
for me it was glenn trying to talk to maggie.
it was sad. abraham so brave. now what happens to the "family"?
negan evil but rick's group acted as mercenaries,killed negan's men while they slept-love interplay of good/bad imperfect ppl
yes.
rick is crushed now. to take back his leadership role means sacrificing daryl! and i do love that redneck



my mom really made up some bullcrap as to why i wasn't going to glamis. that crap just pissed me off so much holy  screw.
your not going???
no. her idiot butt told me she cancelled the trip and then now all of a sudden is going with all of her friends.
awh i wish you were!!!!! we'd have so much fun.
yeah. literally everyone is going and i got  screwed over out of my family trip. i'm  screwing pissed.
awh i'm sorry :( convince her!!!!
i can't get the days off now. it's way too late.



n i cant even see him 



awwww justin you're only a half hour ish away. you should meet up with her.
never gonna happen m8 it wud have by nah i only live on huddersfield
boooooooooo!! it needs to happen.
it isn't hes in glasgow tomorrow no way near me depressing knowin hes 40 mins in a car away from me lol
trust me i know that feeling.



all have a theology, what we think to be true of gosh, &amp; a creed (written or unwritten), what we say to be true of gosh. what informs it?
a rainbow speaks to gosh's nature apart from the bible. but it's through the bible that christians believe that. fascinating.
so my curiosity runs wild to find out what a rainbow means, what does it reveal about gosh thru scripture?...
according to biblical text, gosh gave it while promising that never again shall he destroy the world by flood.
and i've heard that him setting his "bow" in the clouds is like a warrior putting down a weapon.
i don't know if that's true, it's plausible...but things like that keep me digging &amp; enjoying the journey!
good enough for me.



ok...exactly what are y'all mad at ciara about???
i'm mad at her because she never gave me my hoodie back after the breakup
you'll be fine
im so cold tho
get you a chubby girl to lay up with
naw...they pussy too good...make me do crazy tings man
like what 



freshman year, i made a promise that i'd go back to ep after medical school just to make a decent radio station. and i will, mark my words.
why does this remind me of myself considering the fact that i'm doing biomed and comm 
maybe you could be the host. 
***
lol down af 
i'll remind you like in 20 years. 
20??? lmao, it only takes like 8 for med school



wtf should i watch
amber alert
is it good?
yea
if the description butt 
 take it or leave it kianna lawd
lol ima give it a gander 



6 goals tonight, defintely best i've ever played. freaking love my team#deathrowfc 1-0
lies
hater
i had my 1st 6 goal game when i was like 5 #easymoney
hahaha i had 9 in mighty might at memorial lmao. but i suck at soccer i'm just fast.
they dont keep score in mighty mite smh #lies
i kept my own lol.



my spider senses tellin me not to cop this dang game
which
final fantasy
maaan aren't there like 20 of those games?
way more lol
aww hell nah
series like 30 years old breh



next time im home ill be at the usc track running if yall want these hands on the corps was up
wazzup man. pull up with dem dickzz
bro.... thats homosexual chill
sorry private
im hurt you
 sorry pvt
you stupid idiotes



one of the  benefits of being high school clbutt president all four years was a peaceful transition of power.
you were?
naturally
not buying it, sorry.
hey man wtf yeah i was
we'll see
have you ever heard of "peaked in high school" guy? you might wanna back off on challenging my high school achievements. jussayin



5:30am and the garbage truck slams the dumpster to the groundat the school across the street, won't miss that when we move
lol  garbage day here to an i live next to the school.  same. thing.
this happens every morning even in the summer when there is no school
yep and the windows are open an it scares the crap outta ya
and the twice a day traffic crap show with parents
lolol!!  i make my kids wait til the majority is over.  i catn take it!
we can't safely get out of our driveway during drop off pick ups



how is it that airpods are going to be the cheap option to get a w1 chip in headphones?
and even with that price a lot of people have been complaining (mostly those that would never buy anyhow)
but, switching between devices is something that i want to be able to do without huge issue. so airpods might be the best option.
they are definitely the easiest option.im currently using the dash headphones - only paired to my iphone though
i probably dont know what i am missing out on. thatll probably change here in the coming weeks as i get used to airpods
yeah, i think a lot of it is getting used to headphones being wireless and living with the changed parameters of that
i am ready for wireless. my wired headphone device switching system at work is ridiculous!



my dad still gives me crap to this day about choosing dance over sports smh
you can dunk that's  y
lol funny
did you already go to the rec?
no, i'm leaving in like 5 min
i might meet u there
yayyyyy :)) go i won't be there that long



highly recommend taking women studies with proffessor govea because its such an eye opener and she teaches it with such pbuttion i love it
how's her syllabus??
wdym by syllabus 
grading / structure/lenience
and so far we had one exam and it was easy, got an a
ooo sounds good! thanks
shes so awesome ;~; and np



not to be broadcasted to a bunch of bubble screws with no lives on a reality show
i thought you liked nikki?
said last week wasn't true
well nikki is an athlete



i do like carmella
one is a women's wrestler the other is nikki bella



don't have time for fake people so i've been spending time finding out who they are so i can drop em 
alright you caught me. i got a nose job, it's fake
is that why you cover your nose face in all your pictures 
yep. i got got boys.
get gotted you bubble blowin baby

all bubble blowin babies shall be beaten senseless by every able bodied patron in the bar






it was pretty decent, thanks for asking. lol wby? 
pretty good, first day i've had off in a while 
that's good, did you do anything or just chill? bc both are good things to do when you're finally off lol
i was gonna be in bed all day then ended up going to find the rest of my haloween costume 
what're you gonna be??! 
velma from scooby doo



is driving us all the way to cleveland tonight... say a prayer for us 
take me with you
you missed out
you never agreed to take me 
u punched a hole in the wall before i would ask u
that was about ohio state not the indians !
if it goes to 6/7, we will take u



basically larping the cats musical right now while i take my cat 4 his last walk in this neighborhood. neighborhood strays monitoring us....
gonna be interesting walking him by the new place. apparently there are a lot of chihuahuas there and he, a big kitty, thinks they're prey.
it might help if our walks are in the middle of the night but i'm gonna want to get a feel for the area first. and uh. maybe a can of mace.
... don't get mugged
probably going to invest in one of those pointy self defense things that go on your keychain
i would definitely be a victim of friendly fire if i got mace.
.. yeah don't mace yourself. the pointy thing is a good idea.



warriors big are soft. warriors gotta fill the center position
that's why trade klay thompson for demarcus cousins
nope
why not.!?
just cause
you crazy i would do that trade anyday...
i want a defensive center. we got enough scoring players



imy
i will be back in cc soon lil homie
like when exactly ?? 
i think thanksgiving is the earliest
alright bro 
i'll hit you or you sis up when i'm headed down
alright bro



of course trump supporters are mad at megyn kelly she's a woman with a brain and an opinion. she bounces outside the gop bubble of delusion.
she's in her own bubble. calling someone a sexual predator as if it was solid fact is not an opinion. trash trump, rightly
everybody said the same thing when it happened to bill cosby and look how that turned out.
people also said that about 3000 other men during our country's existence and they turned out innocent, even 20 years later
i would be more concerned about donald trump's upcoming child rape case...that one disturbs me on many levels.
can it be disturbing if no proof has been brought forth yet? because until then it's just a story.
it's going to trial in december so enough proof has been brought forward to get that far.



lucid dreams are just awful
i think you mean sleep paralysis dreams, which i also  screwing love them. i also can lucid dream af, i'm a pretty gnarly sleeper bro
yeah sleep paralysis sorry. lucid is the good one. its so hard to get out of sleep paralysis
everyone has their own way of getting out of it; experiment with it dog! wiggling my toes gets me out, no lie.. im a freak
mines my arm , ive had it several times. worst one was shadow people 
i arent afraid nothin! sleep paralysis dreams are  screwing awesome lmfao
yeah idiot i agree but when im trying to get some sleep and this mother  screwer starts whispering things in my ear



i be at work high dennaho  screwing up shi
lmfao u hell. b dropping shii i kno
hell yea. it make time go by fast but what you got going this weekend
none i got a lame life. what's the play? link
i'll b in commerce
dang. when u going
thursday after work



my tl is so dead coz none of my uk people are awake and active 
i am  lol how are you
i'm good! how are you?
that's what up! mi deh yah mon another day another dollar you know.
i hear you brother
what's been happening with you though? you haven't performed recently have you?
just working on some music, finalising some stuff. nahhh, not lately, i will when someone pays me to do so 



dodger talk: i have some concerns with roberts comments stating that the majority of the 2016 team will be coming back for the 2017 season!!
i don't like this...we don't need another repeat of the 2016 season!!!! smh
....why not...it's not like we need a whole lot
then tell me who do they let go and who do they try to acquire??? serious question...please answer!!!!!
...i do think know who they will let go or acquire...i know who i would want to see gone
who do you want to see gone???
...baez....anderson.....think keep puig....reddick can go....kike can go too



not only is my favourite writer from portland but the twitterverse keeps connecting me w/ writers from or. thanks 4 the follow
it's a great area! very conducive for creativity. how's toronto?
indefinitely!toronto is home: hopeful in sports &amp; bustling w multiculturalism. beautiful but full of traffic &amp; condos. &amp; cold!
sounds like portland! just trade cold for rainy ;)
a friend just came back from portland &amp; was surprised how small it was compared to toronto. i want to visit it looks beautiful.
definitely, it's got some hot spots, but overall, it's way less crowded than the average city.
is a local celeb. he's my favourite #writer 






at apex '15. he got that easy money as i remember
remember when that smash 2 guy tried to pull that one on us at big house?
not really. but i bet it happened. did i bop him?
no you went "yea.. suuurrre it's ur first tournament" then you told me you could tell he ain't a melee guy
cuz he didn't react to "smash 2"
dang i'm good



, you think hillary is wonderful. she isn't. but how could you know that? you don't live our lives or know her crimes.
"conservatarian" must mean that you only consume information that comes through chain emails or talk radio.
conservative libertarian. and you must be a hillary fan.
yep. because i don't get my info from chain emails or talk radio.
i'll further bet you haven't even glanced at the wikileaks emails, &amp; you think russia made them up. that's how gullible you are.
i don't think they were made up (without further proof) but i (and our intelligence services) understand that russia leaked them.
but the fact is, the emails contained nothing very danging. they were mild at best.



finna go hoop.
about to get crossed up 
bad game
lol, wya?
i got sleepy fast
lmaoooo!!!! gots to get ya rest so you can make them good grades! 
hell yea, im omw to that bih now 



every girl needs sum chocolate in they life
that part 
true facts yo
i dig ur style lol
thank u
yw
well...at least somebody understands my style



went to tc today, worst idea ive ever had.
but why
i was with my mom, but i realized i hated high school and the majority of the freshman this year are so disrespectful
yeah, we're definitely not meant to go back. 
if i wasn't an adult, i probably would've had to kick some butt
but you are, so 
the only thing holding me back was that i dont look good in orange jumpsuits



good morning happy wednesday or hump day x
good morning christie
good morning maggie you at work now,hope it goes well for you x
thanks buttercup, getting ready enjoy your day
yes hope work goes well maggie x
thanks, having a halloween luncheon today on our floor. we look for any reason to good off and eat
goof off



nothin like gettin together with the guys and just having a good genuine conversation 
mf
c3 &gt; me

ain't even deny it!!
you know wbuttup lol
you can have him. he ain't crap anyway!!



as i get drunk off baker's bourbon. no nothing still beats it other than bookers
i was just thinking i should finally tell you the plan! :b wait until you to y slaughter house bourbon tho it's faster stuff
i did. this schedule is bleh
days off in the literal middle of the week seems to friggin weird............
i mean i do so well but i have to deal with real retards that are picky eaters
it's a  screwing snake pit out there trying to open a spot these days
there is just no honor in serving retards



hey pal you up &amp; out? we still awake big baseball game tonight &amp; mom's team won. i don't quite understand that it's again. m
evening my pal. well that sounds exciting! xxxx
mom tells me she wanted to see her team win the world series before she croaks. last time was 1948 so they overdue. m
blimey, it has been a while then! bet mummy enjoyed watching them x
oh yes she's excited for the indians. it is quite exciting.gets her mind off this crazy election.it's crazier on a daily basis
oh yes. still on the news here all the time! xxxx
i wonder if youz as sick of it as we r it's on 24/7.can't get thru 1 program without hearing something. mom's phone acting up



someone put me on to new music please.
lil peep
any specific song?
beamer boy or white wine. idk if you'd like it but i do lol
just listened to both, good looks  lol
gotchu 
any other suggestions or is lil peep all you listen to these days? lol



boutta break my phone
that's why you need a android 
g crap boutta get one
i need a skype buddy so hurry up 
nah i can't cause someone said they'd drop me if i do
just do it 
thinking about it



quick, name me something more demoralizing than applying to jobs for which you are overqualified
applying to jobs for which you are perfectly qualified and not even getting a call
ugh ok yes i've been there too recently and blahhhhh
it sucks so hard
i am at my wit's end here
(hugs)i feel like that more often than i'd like to admit.
i sorta feel like i've made a huge mistake



i have to be up in a hour and still can't sleep. life is great rn 
don't sleep, that's what coffee is for
girl you for real know i'm about to come to our clbutt looking dead hahah
you and me both! hahaha all in this together
watch me on the news at 5 am 
omg i will!!! hahahaha
wfmj at 5-7am 



i kinda feel like playing bo3 but it gets boring playing solo
i'll play with you!
psn??
dang! xbox 1 
i have a xbox1
oh awesome!! my gtag is islaycodx
ok give me a sec :)



you can't miss your opportunities 
never
oh look you're still awake
barely
why don't you go to sleep?
cause someone keeps making my phone light up 
oh who would that be?



ok...now i can use this coupon on xv or dr4....hmmm
nigga, are you serious? dead rising 4, nah, just dead series.
series not bad lok
it is after 3.
i only played a demo for 3. only thing i noticed is no strict time and the game is dark aesthetic wise for whatever reason
and restrictive and rife with performance issues.
dr4 looks fun but wtf happened to frank



the only reason they don't? they will not deviate from #theplan which includes trusting #hunter and his drafting. allow picks to develop.
if that isn't their plan, which i guarantee it is, then they are morons.  never have more cap room than the next 2 yrs..
wrong. mentality is to win every game right now. management controls the time frame. that mentality though is fragile.
when you have 3 all stars on ecls you have no better time to load up
i agree. insulate. but the retained salary sucks and why blow the cap on risky ufas that restrict paying the young studs
lucky the nhl ways has excellent mid level stepniak / parenteus available for free every summer
hah! versteeg? i get it. plug the holes with cheap vets. smart.



it  screwing hurts to even lay my head down. gosh.
did you try taking some ibuprofen?
away. 
i'm sorry, babe. wish i could do something to help.
it's okay, babe. just sucks when i have to go to school and do things instead of resting.
yeah, i know. 
i don't know if i'm going to take tomorrow off or not. just have to see how i feel in the morning.



#hereiamwithher wondering how screwed up you have to be to vote for her just because she has a vagina.
it's more like because hillary has a brain in her head, unlike her opponent who needs to be, off to see the wizard..
according to wikileaks she's not to bright and that's coming from the ppl who work for her.
have you actually even gone to wikileaks or do you just read the edited and highlighted stuff they pbutt around twitter?
i've read them yes and that's lame to try to say it's edited. yesterday i read one where they needed to sober her up, lol
if you've actually read them directly, can you forward me a link?
simple google wikileaks



gonna be live at the kanye concert
your going?
yes sir
ayye... you saw the warriors get waxed 
naw at work going to catch the highlights tho soon
true i forget you work during the week lol
you always forget smg



not going to escape, so i better go see ye
tbh would have preferred escape over ye, but wasn't gonna happen :(
dang , should have just shown up to escape in a wheel chair i would have helped raised you up during the sets
haha that wasn't the problem, i needed a ride and my sister wasn't going.
haha oh dang that sucks , should have rode with us lol
yea but i only knew of 1 person going and it's just weird to try and go solo lol
oh aww no rave fam. yeah and i tend to move around a lot stage to stage so i wouldn't expect you to tag along with us there lol



do people still play world of warcraft? like that sounds like such an iconic mid 2000s thing but it still exists???
remind me to tell you about my wow obsessed, mega loser of a cousin sometime 
how much good boy points does he have?
his rice score is hands down 100
jesus  screwing christ how is that even possible? my friend who is waiting till marriage for sex is at least a 72
and here i am with my what, 17?
p much. i'm at like a 30



if you're so confident in your "non-binary" gender, why do you so easily get offended by everything?
i used to be on tumblr a lot and totally caught up in the insane dogma, i think a lot of the oversensitivity is bc ppl are
completely agree with you. i used to be a hardcore sjw as well and almost came out to my mom as agender. glad i'm outta there
awesome, it always makes me hopeful to see more ppl who have turned their critical thinking back on
it was so funny because i left religion before, thinking i was breaking free from people who didn't think rationally
but i dragged myself into another similar cult. i'm like simultaneously patting myself on the back and chiding myself rn
i wasnt raised religious but i feel you on that lol.. i cant believe the crap i bought into, but at least i stopped..



happy c-day my nigga 
my nigga big birdd crap fam thanks my dude that crap means a lot stay up out there g
boy i ain't know you ain't talking to me hunch back of norte dame
why you look like dr. doofenshmirtz tho ..
bruh i still got all the old craps and some new craps let's not start this roast
you look like peter parker in highschool....getting bullied lmao
my nigga is spider-man now



3rd grade teacher questioner we had to read around 1st few days of school my favorite song:2ofamericaz most wanted
@ a private catholic school they called my mom&amp;she took away my radio would never let me have a parental ad sticker #90sprobs 
took slim shady ep &amp; offspring americana tapes to elementary school &amp; got suspended 4 a wk. #wellworthit #1999
got cronic 2001 as valentines gift from my gf in 7th grade, and my mom found it broke it into pieces
on my floor when i came home from school and she immediately thought i was smoking weed. (didn't till i was 20)
i wasn't allowed anything with that parental advisory sticker
ouch, back in the day especially the 90s the best records had the sticker. you must have been in radio disney hell



so is wikileaks credible? can anyone say for sure? it seems like no one knows and what u believe is based on ur party
i don't think there is any evidence that they have doctored materials.
so wikileaks is sort of like snowden? if what they are saying is credible, honest liberal media should cover that too... yeah?
ny times with a huge cover story on new wikileaks today. not sure why you think the liberal media isn't covering?
ok today exactly they did, before this or no?
i think it's been pretty widely covered on a daily basis..every day, i see stories highlighting new info
then how does hillary still have any credibility?



im shuffling through my ygo decks and why is my dragon deck so useless? i need to rebuild it. my blackwing deck is still gucci tho
i havent played in so long tho im super rusty w my cards and their effects.
lets gooooo
but remind me to bring my deck home
tell me when u go home
turkey
i cant believe youre riding anturkey home



welcome to buffalo wild wings, where we're out of boneless and honey bbq...
don't be that customer lol
nope....legit, i was that employee.  and was dead serious too.  we're out until thursday &gt;_&gt;
wait you worked here too? lmaoooo
lol yup...with the absolute best management  /sarcasm
i actually don't mind it i've worked for  screwin hitler soooo
this team making my chain of command in my army days from 2008 look like geniuses lol



fun fact, i pluck parts of my facial hair lol
same
really ? lol
yup, some mustache hair and the side of my jaw.
yea it's just better, and honestly i'm trying to get this crap waxed off eventually or laser (i'm def getting laser but i'm broke so)
need to wax my backside. but i don't feel comfortable with people touching me lol
just let them do it, or take some shots but not too many lol



i need to smoke, this cold turkey  not going

idek why i'm up bro i can't sleep
nigga i ain't even been sleep yet smh i'm salty
ctfu nigga why
bro idk i just can't sleep
crap weird ain't it ?



lsu in the avi?
lsu in the avi 
#geauxtigers! #beatbama #buckfama
see you cool people lol
lol yeah i can say the same. and i saw you tweeting #riseup sunday io
thanks! and yup them too.
you lit like me then 



is iw gonna be cross platform?
no just the same like xbox and ps4 no pc
fuuck
guess it's a good thing i got an xbox 1
you serious??
i've had one just have nothing to play on it
bo3 and play with me haha and iw comes out in like less than a month



i'm in clbutt bout to die man
man change your faggot butt avi
idiot make me change it
u gotta stop that crap  watchu on tonight 
lmfao, ian got no moves, link up.
bet, ur brother bullcrapted last night
bout what



i hope everyone registered to vote on time 
only if ur on the ballot
you can write me in! lol jk. but did you?
if there is i'm doing it idc,&amp; haha of course once u register once you registered forever since i voted for obama last time
no vote clinton! haha okay good 
anything for u yackie 
.... that's been long gone for a while now



grows by the day
same girl i just love her
the new originals season came on to netflix and it reminded me of how much i love her 
and once you catch up the new season starts in january or february on cw!!!!
wait these girls came up to my last week and said "do you know chloe from h2o?" and i was like yeah yeah 
ahahahahah good! and omg see i know what im talking about
i wanted to go as hybrid hayley for halloween but i felt like i would mess up with the lines under the eyes



sitting here wondering why my face hurts and i just remembered i hit myself in the face with a late machine
stop being so dang emo, chill out dude
studying for chem gmfu
aww i miss chem
lmao nah
i like chem more than bio
nah i love bio



make me some food pls ....
girl it's 2 am and i'm trying to sleep 
but you're on twitter 
i know can't sleep duhh
well since you're up ....
lol noo who do u think i am your maid ? 
.... the best grill cheese maker ...



geology was dope today b/c we went downtown to look at the rocks of buildings &amp; even went to the tech museum to look at earthquake stuff 
omg do u have colin's 
hahah yes! do you?
yaaaa on thursdays! do u have lab 6?
aw i have it tuesdays! i don't have it, our exam is next tuesday :(
u didn't get it back from him? i missed the lab so i don't have the worksheets 
oh wait yeah i have it! i can send pics of it if you need it!



what's all ya sext beasts up to tonight?
gettin' old!   what, it's a hobby.
whaaat not writing while getting old?
i've been slacking, true.  world needs more text of muscle balloonification, really.  it's my niche.
yes your work makes the world a better place :u
i've gotten some thoughts from your work in that regard that i really need to type out, one of these days.  thanks!
i eagerly cannot wait &lt;3



's wedding in san francisco city hall today.
how long before you swap the uk for san fran?! haha enjoy.
would have happened ages ago if i had my way man haha.
great place. shame i was there when no sport was on!
you should come back when there is. great sporting city.
tell me about it... and some great pizza around too!
most definitely!



being attached ain no joke 
hey wyd
omw home wyd
y u leaving
im not feeling well
quit lyinggggg
uh no text back ? 



how does ohio state drop behind louisville? the acc is the joke of college football.
because louisville would have destroyed penn state!!
i wouldn't be so sure about that. louisville wouldn't stand a chance against osu, mich, neb, wisconsin.....
dude osu just lost to penn state we will beat nebraska um will be a good game
you obviously don't know how hard it is to win at psu.... you think b1g teams are overrated? louisville is in the acc 
how its looking the acc and the big ten have 2 truly good teams neb will have 2ls and wisconsin already have 2 be honest!!
clemson is overrated. they struggled badly with troy (lmao). wis only 2 loses (osu, um). nebraska still have 3 tough games



i'm not ready for this episode fam
missed it sunday, and someone canceled my recording :)  i'm never up this late, but i'm staying up to watch replay at 3:30!
it's rough
started at 315.  20 minutes in and i'm already at a loss for words....
that...was disturbing.
i'm still in shock...it was unnecessarily brutal
but agreed.  that was rough to watch.



help seriously
'smatter hon?
pain. sdudes. life.
wish there was something i could do
what i need is someone to help me go sdude shopping. i'm literally wearing 2 right sdudes
oh no! how did that happen!
sdudes falling apart haven't been up to going shopping



my car died right in the middle of a roundabout  only me 
omg!!
it was terrible 
what did you do?!
the cops came and helped me out
omg i would've been so scared lol
i was crying 



it is barely going to be wednesday and the type of  screwery i've had to deal with is beyond me
go to sleep
i just got off of work lol
yo, wtf rod quit?
yes over the phone 
but why tho
he got a better job.... and it's naomi's last day next tuesday lmao



ps and nintendo over xbox for me but i'm willing to pick up xbox stuff for my collection
so uhhh what are good clbuttic xbox tittles
as in og xbox?
yee
jet set radio future, shenmue 2, panzer dragoon, ninja gaiden black, otogi 1&amp;2, gun valkyrie, outrun 2
im liking what im seeing might have to invest in an xbox and jump on the team
theres also fable and the knights of the republic games(on pc too i believe)



the bacterial eye infection in the wolf was secondary to likely demodex mites. #drkexoticvet
could you take care of the demodex mites with bravecto? or would that only work in domestic dogs?
no studies on bravecto in other species so we don't know safety and efficacy.
thanks, dr. thielen! are you currently filming for the next season of dr. k's? :d i can't wait!!! love the cases &amp; team.
we just finished filming not too long ago! new episodes feb!
do you ever struggle with compbuttion fatigue? i know that it is a major problem in the profession currently.
interesting to bring up. i don't suffer from cf but burn out from working all these hours. my residency almost killed me!



so many words to absorb on the bio. i feel like sponge bob. scientist, i'll drop the mic there. unless it's scientology.
nix nein non on the "scientology."i'm a biologist, but work in petroleum.
which is bio. was hoping quantum mechanics. bio can get boring. how is that different than geological exploration?
my quantum mechanics experience is limited to the monte carlo simulation.
that's math
it's math, but more like determining where you're at in space and time; helps me help people improve decision-making.
how being nowhere and in several places at the exact same time as a wave and particle but not unless obsearved would help



i cannot wait to move next month into a civilized area with reliable internet.
who's gonna be your provider?
either comcast or centurylink, i think. but literally anything would be an improvement.
might want to check out comcast new....data cap policy coming in november before you go to them.
will do
i guess living alone and i used 560gb which makes zero sense....
wtf how



the walking dead just messed me up so much. and they killed my favorite character. i'm shook. 
i am still not okay.
same. i feel like i was there.
very nervous to see what a season with negan is like.
i read the comics so it's gonna get interesting and jeffrey dean morgan plays him amazing.
jeffrey dean morgan is amazing in everything he does. i will probably come to love him.
its so hard though.



cavs best team in da league! don't @ me
...
dontae go to sleep
 buggin
who better?
dangnnn it's only the first game.. let the league rock first
bro they are in the league it don't matter! if they would've smacked the spurs everybody would be saying warriors best team... 



anybody want to see weezer with me? in bethlehem pa? alert alert anyone
oh  screw dude when
december 3rd
i'd be down how much are tix
54 per. u down?
yeah if i'm not broke by then lmao my financial situation's  screwed rn
it's all good bro we are all in the same boat keep in touch tho



f/a
nah imagine

blank tweet
what? lol
that tweet was blank for me
thinking emoji. get an iphone. 



i take dat back dat was mean
btw  screw you
lol i said i take that back
still gonna take offense, i'm a great person and a crapty one so you better recognize it ya hussy
ya mama
ya mama single yet wondering for the future if need be
she's married ...



i'm so bored
let's go skydiving
i'm down
next month?
just give me da date i'm downnnnn whenever
are you serious you are down
yes fr



my goal: to watch an episode of #thisisus without weeping uncontrollably. my hunch: it will not happen.
well i made it 51 minutes without crying. a new record. i was so close to getting to the end. dang you #thisisus !
does it count itself out if you were crying before,(a stubbed toe) stopped, then cried again? 26 minutes. #thisisus
was the second waterworks from the show or still the stubbed toe?
toe~then stopped~then started again during the show.
hmm. that may just be fortuitous timing?
i am gonna take the loss &amp; try again next ep. (it's wicked) jk it's late here. congrats on your time. til next week.#thisisus



anyone else getting the 404 error trying to get the #urbandecay #fullspectrum palette   what's going on?
i sat refreshing the page for like 5 minutes, and when it finally came up, it was out of stock
whatt??? for me it's just been showing 404! ugh i've been waiting months it can be out of stock in 5 minutes!! 
ikr! i'm so upset. my local sephora said they get it nov 2. i'm bout to be camping out before they open 
honestly!! like saved my bday money for this palette i've been waited sense they teased it. gotta call my sephora! 
i'll pray that the makeup goshs are kind to you 
same goes too you! i don't have time to camp out next to a sephora i got midterms



i said i wasn't going to do a morning mention again cause people don't really do what the mention actually says lol
but it does say fb or get unfollowed so i have options too
talking to yourself ? 
not really i mean just couldn't say how i wanted to say with this 140 word limit stuff lol

you the one that be talking to yourself..."donasia i think they on to me...oh really??" 
 nobody will listen to you like yourself.



i wish i could play an instrument lol
i can
which one 
guitar
do u have a video of u playing
no i haven't played in a while
lies



pretty sure my friends should pay me to find out things for them when they ask cause i'm just so freaking good at it
what's my favorite color
navy blue
incorrect. your services will no longer b needed.
your avi is great btw
candid
are you kidding me?????? i was so close lol and yes she's great



for making himself relevant again by dissing drake just like everybody else tries to do
he's been relevant embecile
so u was bumping kid cudi in 2016 before the drake and kanye thing?
nigga yes like 2 weeks ago i was listening to his music while i was getting stoned

do that all you want
u can't tell me kid cudi name come up in music convo in 2016 tho



got my back on this one #inkmaster 
good thing he doesn't listen to dark matter yet ... "snacks up your butt ..."  (hope everything's ok though) 
yes he managed to blow the marble out of his nose. seriously almost crap my pants. 
good story &amp; btw todd &amp; dan need callers tonight ... 
tonight or tomorrow night?
dark matter with todd &amp; dan tonight
uuuggghhhh ok i guess i'll listen 



i loveeeeeeeeeeee this  screw
this seems sooooo up your alley!
right? omg soooooo jam
i love it lmao i'm so lkajfkjafk gosh. i /love/ it
it was junho's song right?wowow
yeah!!!!!! i'm so proud of him lmao his songwriting!!!! i love the lil retro feels he always gives his work *_______*
guess who's gonna jam to it?omg can't wait to hear the album version so cool 8_*



just had one of my worst breathing attacks or whatever you want to call them. it sucks having to gasp for air.
panic attack... welcome to a daily struggle of someone with anxiety
it's not a panic attack for me. it's a cold attack basically. you know my situation it's one of those situations 
no i'm so lost
you were at my house when i had one where i can't breathe and crap just hits me all at once. and i need my inhaler.
i've never witnessed anything like that. 
she use 2 be able to do it without it.



where do i buy medicine in animal crossing, i got stung by bees twice
at tom nook's!
ahaha alright ima go there now, i gotta go near there anyway to sell some stuff
did you see my new drawings? 
yeah, you really be puttin in work lol. drawing hella crap lol
@drellyfish i don't want to bother you but it'd be awesome if you could rt it as an ways, because of you i always get a lot of recognition
retag me on it plz



some of the conversations ash and i have actually sound like we date or something idk
so ur cheating on me
oops
that's fine, nexttt
stfu and love me
ok srry
thanks



. 
so tell them to stop carrying one crappy made in china knock off line (ivanka) so we can all happily shop there
i'm sorry, but i think this is totally weird since so much has been made by other companies in asia for years.
oh sure, not about china really that's a side point. it's about discouraging others from running as a nazi demagogue
woah... did i miss something? is she using human body parts in her fibers?
because another round of this will lead to unabomber style militia violence.if capitalist person choice can stop,yay
so, i take it you aren't voting? both candidates are capitalists.



i can't wait to go home and face a blunt in bed
best feeling, i'm rolling one rn
what are your go to skins
either wild rush swishers or pineapple games
everyone has been talking about the games i might have to try them one time
they have some good flavors, i usually just roll swishers all day tho
ahhh i'm a white owl kinda bih. do the games burn slow



i was finishing up this buttignment till i checked my twitter notifications 

twitter is such a big distraction yo 
exactly my spanish teacher keep telling me put my phone away 
put it away and learn some spanish 
i missed 2 days &amp; everyday a block day imma never catch up 
stay after school yo  that'll help you catch up.



i just watched "this is us" and it made me cry a little bit.....again. lmao.
that show  screws me up man
i always talk about being heartless but every week when i watch it i'm a little idiot lmao
lmao ok me
currently my favorite show... until nashville comes back.
ughhhhhh when does that come back?!
january 5th!!



i'm very confident that cavs will win again. the king is still forcing his will on the league!
promise they won't
you'll see
y'all sleeping on dame
they'll have a good season but they don't have enough to get past warriors or spurs
warriors look terrible tonight the way they look they can't beat portland
what about spurs?



my spider senses tellin me not to cop this dang game
what game?
xv lol. usually when i go against my gut feeling i regret it
!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i'm so conflicted on it lol
lmao you need to finish x...you not coming off the heels of modern square so idk where the worry comes from
it's just how the game been in dev so long. and idk the stigma around the game weird. season pbutt... countless dlc items
most of the stigma is fans being overly mad that it aint turnbased. ff aint been turn based since like 03



tengo un dolor de cabeza como que si anduviera cruda 
deseguro si andas cruda 
hahha no nqv 
ajaaa
ahhhhh believe me !
no pos s ya vi que andas tomando si i can't lol
ahhhh really? it was only 1 drink lol



let's take a vote! should chuck rub josh's back?
other way around
but josh is the one who has a problem!
now all three of us have problems #rubchucksback
stop that hashtag now
so help me gosh i will get it trending if you don't play my name is mud
try me



ima just start doing her like she be doing me 
who you talkin bout ?
you 
no kause aint nobody doin you no type of way 
ok 
dont speak on my city rara 
 screw em



i got a presentation due tomorrow but of course i haven't started on it. 
almost done. 
wyd
homework.
i'm so boredt
suck some dick
 eat some clit



why are shirts so expensive????
$18
free
ummmmmmm i'm cute?
me too!
buying a shirt directly supports the willow fund
dang:/ 



watching this tnt nba deal about race, such weak sauce, so out of touch of the legit issues of the movement, why bother then
like...what...is...the...point if you're giving one sided opinions?
can at least one of them talk about their experience about how they were fd with because of their race, they have stories
especially jim brown. they're not offering anything outside of typical victim/community blaming. this is solving nothing.
barkley is so out of touch, he is an uncle tom
chuck is so far gone from race relations. on a scale of 1 to oj simpson, he's up there on being out of touch on his community
totally, but i liked the ok doc, haha



and i dnt ever shoot my shot smh
this is why we can't start a family ima have to fight uber drivers lol
lol oh plz. every day it's somebody new u tweeting abt to marry u or give u babies
i don't know what you talking about
i'm sure
don't do this
i'm chillin' lil mama



i've never been so tilted than watching a chat argue over which is better blood viles or estus.
game theory here i come
didn't help that the person streaming was the one that caused the argument. 
you could be necking vodka for all i care, and i would still buy the dang thing on day one
yes and no on the same thing lol. his main complaint was farming blood viles.
either way by the end of the game you come out with way too many of them, and barely anything can touch you
well he was treating it like dark souls tho. running pbutted mobs to go to the boss. so yeah he was bound to run out.



#wikileaks has confirmed everything non-hc shields have been saying about hillaryat least hillary being corrupted isn't up 4 debate anymore
if wikileaks is all u have...that's pathetic. every time they release emails, she widens her lead over trump and jill
no it isn't but they have proven hillary is a two faced person.
btw what happened 2 ur jill logo. have u dumped her already? she needs you cuz you is all she has now.
i still have tnonope. she has others
with citations
yeah i saw them site things that proved the narrative they wanted



#msnbc #morningjoe 2010 teaparty came to blow governance up and they did #trump #bannon coming to blow country up #vote #hrc=critical
all contrived by koch bros. backed tea party, did gerrymandering won state legislatures, governors, etc. won house obstructed pbo!
you nailed it catherine and many of us have not forgotten,dont have selective memory,know cant fix what don't own-hope we prevail
can win senate, beverly. take 25 seats in house. we can prevail! must get out dem vote. can't have tarnished presidency-vulgar man
doing my part as much as can-we must prevail
you sure do each day. thank you for your insights!
as do you catherine,thanks for compliment-appreciated



i'm trying so hard to keep my eyes open 
go to sleep
i need to! i slept like 3 hours last night 
random butt eye emoji but whoa three hours who are you
i know!!! midterms is killing me  i'm going to fix my schedule starting next week 
nah you good
nah i'm not, gotta get my life together



the strangers just csme on tv. i'm  screwed. not sleeping..bye.
that movie is the creepiest movie i've ever seen
hold me. i'm scared lol
lmaoooo i was scared when i was at that creepy motel 
i was dead butt about to call the police hahahha
i thought i was gonna die lol
so did i.....jk 



can i talk to you about the ap job?
?
the buttociate producer job i mean
ah! i dunno if i'll be much help, but i can try to answer a quick question or two
do you know how much experience i would need to get an email back? or how long it would take to hear back
as much as the job asks for unless you can justify it otherwise in your cover letter, and i dunno!
it took me 6 weeks to get my job from application, and i was already on the books haha
alright i appreciate it!



interesting. catching up on internal sops in the office this morning.  we've a new health and safety policy for working alone in the field.
is it to not point the lasers at yourself?
yes! do not point the lasers at yourself or anyone else.  ;p
anyone else? uncoooooool.
i actually did point the laser at myself a few weeks ago and could see a signal from the bone in my finger. how cool is that?
that is fricking badbutt, no lie
it was neat. could see bone in my finger then fatty acids in the fleshy part of my arm. i know. i'ma dork.
no, that's totally cool!!



can someone explain to me why i am still awake?!
same des
it's annoying. i have to be up for work at 8! 
i have to be up for clbutt at 8 this insomnia a idiot
obviously sleep just isn't on our schedule for today lol
"sleep is for the weak" id like some of it though
i wouldn't mind being weak if it meant i could get some rest before work 
i'm not feelin clbutt tomorrow rn but i definitely won't be feeling it in the morning



i want an asian boyfriend
no, no you do not. trusts mi
girl why. they're so cute i want them all :( #althoughanasianbrokemyheartbefore
i've dated 2 and they're both so similar thinking they're the crap and stuff. so possessive 12/10 don't recommend
you're right lol i dated an asian and he thought he was hot crap smh :/
right!? like girrrrrrl my ex didn't want me to wear shorts without him around lolol #trustory
girl i'm glad you not with that controlling butthole anymore smh what is wrong with men lmao
thank boo boo! happy you're not with ur "hot crap" ex too ahaha



anyone tryna go to denver for the thug 21 show? it's gonna be lit.
me
fr? airline tickets 66$ round trip.
yeah dead butt when is it
december 11th.
you in atl?
yea.
text me 7705499955



i watched "hate rising" last night. highly recommended. the corridor scene with ramos and the trump camaign says it all. #nevertrump
i dvred it. haven't finished watching it yet. was at the point where he was interviewing the second guy.
the weirdo nazi groups are as expected - it's the people who might pbutt for normal who are shocking.
exactly! the "shirt and tie, white nationalist" as the one lady put it. they have a better chance of recruiting more people.
it's astonishing anyone is that stupid and obtuse on purpose in this century.
eh, a lot of these folks aren't stupid though. it's about fear. they're afraid of "change".
it's just another flavor of victimhood.
exactly. one thing i will say though, through the first three interviews he seemed too standoffish with the interviewees.



yo i've never vibed with someone like this before
go to sleep
imy &amp; my peanut :(( 
miss u too !! i got her hospital bag ready today 
you have no idea how excited i am that she will be here in less then a month 
dude i know ! 26 days until my due date but after this week she could literally be here any day 
i'm gonna cry when i meet her tbh don't judge me
lol i won't i promise



i send pictures of pigs to hayden to talk about how crapty they look
wow you're such a great influence on the new ffa members, you should be so proud of yourself
you're so childish, worry about your own dang animals &amp; let other people worry about theirs.
i'm allowed to talk about pig with my boyfriend that is my business
talking "crap" about other people's animals isn't your business.
it's my opinion of an animal therefore it is my business
okay well no more opinions on mine. not your business. so keep your mouth shut. i'm done with this
lol sure thing bud 



i dont even wanna step foot outside cus i already know its cold
 screwing ice cold
noo im so sad
 it's gonna be a harsh halloween
crap  screw it ima be drunk ill be hot af 
day drinking 
ur crazyy i wouldnt be alive for the nighttime 
i don't think imma be conscious on halloween either  i'm having a house party , over 200 jell-o shots.



i'm sooooo over being nice. like seriously that's it 
you're too nice sometimes lol
i know i needa be elizabeth but when she's off that henny 
omggggg! hahahha i was such a idiot. you should try it
idiot i did try it but idk what it did to you  i was like op i think today's the day me &amp; elizabeth are going to throw hands
no lie i think if it were someone else who gave me crap i probably would have thrown hands lmao ima keep w tequila now
never again going through that tho lol worst crap
 you were still telling me you love me even though you were being a idiot so i was like okay it's good she loves me lmaooo



yes the spurs thumped the warriors but stop saying they won't win this or that. still so much ball to play
only 1 game smh
right bro and they saying they won't win the west etc. i mean dann
thats bs, they really needed that butt whoopin they woke now
100% but people forgot the 11 heat started slow af too but i'm sleep 
i swear i was thinkin tha same thing, just like the 11 heat
great minds think alike. just hating. speaking of hating lbj jumper still broke af 
that idiot was stat padding like a dude, nigga yall up by 20!! in tha 4th and you still in?



hoy tara englishan tayo! hahahahahaha
sure sure 
so what's up men? hahahahaha
like. i'm staring at the ceiling cause i'm lying down 
lazy day? get up and do something! (putahrages ang hirap jusq mali pa ata sinasabi ko) hahahaha
hahahaha . no... it's 3:41am right now and i got home from work like 3 hours ago.. 
i see, so why are you still awake? not yet sleepy? or waiting for someone?
i'm not yet sleepy.. hahaha.. and i'm kinda angry right now.. pissed off again because of someone or probably at myself.



i wanna get married at a vineyard.. did i say at? i meant to.... because ya know.. wine.
we need to road trip to ironstone vineyards soon, flipping beautiful dude and it's only like an hour away
but.... i will have to get a fake id first 
you got it cupcake.
where do you even get fake id's #imagirlscout
by the way. do you remember girl scouts?!
honestly kind of thought it was a cult growing up and i was secretly only in it because my mom made me but love the memories
 i remember when we graduated to juniors..



need a coach / confidence booster to gas me up 
i'm right here bro wbuttup
i need this
ik i will be playing iw variant if that doesn't go good i'll be become a coach, and bro don't give up you have talent and ambition
ik man i've been in a little slump lately and i'm trying to build my dreams back up
if you need anything dm me homie
gotcha pal gotta chill soon
or we can play in a local lan we each other and dominate lol



7 more hours 
till 
i get off.. nigga had to be in at 3 this mornin
wya now ?
nebraska
how they treating you up there ?
it's straight son.. ready to come home tho
you know when you come ?



okay i use instagram more than i even use twitter these days but wow my aesthetic on there sucks butt im an embarrbuttment
what is your insta?
same as twitter n pretty much everything
what the  screw, i dont remember adding you but i guess i did that already. coolio.
yeah i think we kinda followed each other on everything back when i was friends with dalton
welp i dont remember that at all and  screw that kid lol
lmao okay tru
that entire family is trash. like literally trash.



practicing goat tying my foot rn &amp; i've rope burned it.. bad..
you're doing goats? lol
ybutts!!! i trained jd for it &amp; richard just taught me how to tie so all i need is a goat.. can i use cisco lol?
ha! you have lost your mind! hell to the nah can you use my baby cisco!  #dude
dang too bad i can't use baby ziggy lol he's too big  #lookwhostalking
 only in yo dreams sweetheart!  &gt;insert zebra emoji here&lt;
honestly if i learned how to tie a baby zebra a goat would be no prob
truth 



my dang world is upside down right now. i've learned stuff in the last 24 hours i should have learned a long time ago.
like what?
i may have 4 older half brothers i never knew of. i'm doing a lot of piecing together right now to find out.
my family on that side is so big i never knew. now my finding out, through those i didn't know.
"supposed" family contacting me now.
blood, like from my dad
people i never knew existed til now. i'm trying to piece it all together
i actually have been through that.



i ruined my nice healthy hair there not even long no more cause i burned them they got short i dont no how
hay idiot
hay garidiot
i would date u if you wasn't such a idiot butt
i would date u if u wasn't such a cry face
how am i a cryface 
nobodyyyy loves me i hateeee womennnnnn
you don't know what i've been through



someone stop me from biting my  screwing nails dude ughhhhh
i bit my nails for 14 years straight and there's honestly no way to stop it. especially it it's a nervous habit which mine was
and i still pick and them and it takes every inch of my body to stop myself to this day but it's been a year and i'm so happy
getting long i bit them and it's so nasty but i can't stop 
it's hard dude i tried everything and nothing work until i made myself finally stop because i wanted to paint my nails lol
i even do that and i still end up biting them )): idk i bite the inside of my cheeks too and like the skin around my nails
i bite my lips and cheeks too 
i guess i just have to get stronger will power  the struggle is too real



are more than 20 teams going to stl?
i live 1.5 hours away, but don't have a team. might come spectate this weekend though if i don't get a last-minute squad.
dude if shirts are dope there i may get you to pick me up 2 i can paypal. lemme know 
absolutely! wish you'd come though so we can hang bb.
i know i know bb :( going to see bae this weekend. we're trying to come to an event soon
hopefully there are more that i can go to. absolutely can't justify flying to cali when i have bills to pay. haha
but vegas (   )
true... but would i rather go to pgl vegas, or evo 2017? don't know if i can do both. haha



let me go eat something

what happen boo?
im hungry lol what you got
my step dad made ziti but i think they snuck a bowl of banana pudding in there too bout to go see 
 go
it was just pudding 
wow i don't eat that



i miss doing crap in general. all i do is work
yo. thursday. the wonder years, knuckle puck, moose blood, real friends. it's $30. go
!!!!! what!!! i need to go. where at and what time.
royal oak music theater. doors open at 6.
i get out of work at 7:30 &gt;:(
i won't be getting out of work until like 8 at the earliest. you don't have to be on time to have a good time.
well you aren't wrong. give me a 2 week notice and i'd still be 20 minutes late prolly.
let me get over my irrational fear of crowds and people in general real quick and i'll be there.



kanye is gonna be so  screwing lit i swear to gawd!!!
yaaaas
so you are going tomorrow?!
not tomorrow, november 23rd 
eww! did you at least get pit tickets?!
yes !! that's why i bought them, they were way cheaper for this show 
yea cause you're buying them early! the seats around me are being sold for $150 rn! and i bought them for $30. 
fuuuuuuck that 



i'm crying over a movie
what movie?
beauty and the beast
haven't watched that movie in forever!
same! but it's my favorite movie ever and she's my fav princess
i still have that movie on dvd
i lost the dvd
where are you watching it from?



anybody wanna snapcash me money for some kanye merch? thanks
i bought lots of it in oakland &amp; 2 items today.
frame a shirt. memorabilia!
good idea. not sure which one.
the one you see wearing the most. that's the one you should take care of best.
true. i was bummed i couldn't get the camo tee.
okay but at least you got merch. be happy!!! you've experienced his show!! the little things matter most.
i'm not complaining.



as bad as that segment was, still better than a women's arm wrestling match on raw.
stole the words out of my mouth #rawisaturdsandwich
hah. watched the review huh?
thanks for the review by the way. funny i think a lot of the same crap you do when craps going down on #wweprogramming
that's why we're here. amazing how many people think the same way.
when u got hllywd writers with no wrestling brain writing a wrestling show you get "we want wrestling chants"   #embarrbuttedfan
yeah, sd is the superior show right now.
smackdown looks like the attitude era compared to raw right now. as hard to watch as #impactwrestling. #needcoffeeforthis



i lost 8lbs in 7 days eating only salads, turkey meat, grilled chicken breasts, grapes, and 2 gallons of water a day.
oh it's lit. congrats boo. i really need to do something.
i gotta lose about 30 more before i go home for tg. i had to tame my sugar crave. i got it under control now
how sway? i need to lose 30 period.
i had to stomach the fact that salads help tremendously. darker the green, the better. i cut up chicken and turkey with it.
i like spinach salads so that's fine. it's just exercise i'm annoyed by
yeah, i hate exercising. period!!! so what i do is just a few sit ups and push ups and go to la fitness and play bball.
i'm gonna start walking /jogging again. that's really all that doesn't annoy me.



im about to loose the smalllllllllllll little bit of patience i have left in me if this website does not let me schedule my dang clbuttes
dont use wifi go to a computer lab or something
just walked down to my computer lab &amp; still wont work omfg
oh well idk mine worked fine it only took me like 3 trys
finally got it to work. i guess i got locked out of my account after trying to log in so many times :'))
yeah bg needs to figure out a different way to do this lol
you're tellin me. i was on the verge of ripping my hair out
yeah im pretty pissed because im on a waiting list for one of my clbuttes



wanted to act like she was beyonc or some  when she came in to chipotle 
we was trying to ask this dude who she was n she acting like we was paparazzi 

bra you should've been there
you know i would've said some lol 
lmfso we all was taking her butt out
 saying what  ? who fixed her bowl?
lmfao do she think she joseline or some n blu n sheema



call ur henchmen slime
go back 2 sleep lol
lol it's 9 i'm awake already
me too haven't seen u in 4ever
facts tho last time i saw you were we doing community service  lmao
no we were at that kids house w the pool and the tent and the speaker lol
oh crap! ur right i completely forgot about that. that was a while ago too tho
ik lets have a reunion



sim city exactly. they want to force demand and development around choo choos. it wont work because we arent lab rats. #tcnt
look around the blue, green and northstar lines. it is already happening.
there is a long, long way to go. plus the bond market risks. then the other question is, is it even ethical?
why isn't this the same for road construction? it's all social/civil engineering. shouldn't pretend otherwise.
with roads its very easy to determine if you are supplying what is wanted, not forcing it.
that's silly. congestion isn't a sign that more lanes are needed. examples are everywhere. atlanta is a good one.
the vast majority of those things have all kinds of capital and fiscal problems. choo choos were only sensible when the ...
...country was poorer.



me?
mmhmm
i haven't nutted since last wednesday /thursday. i'm on lock down by bryant as far as that goes lmao. he said i gotta hold it
i know!!i wanna edge, but i know if i do imma hit the wrong pressure point and explode!
 screw that, i'm gonna edge lmao... at least i'll get a small bit of relief without nutting. i just need to stroke my dick
lol i'm scared.
why u scared sexy?
cuz imma gonna shoot like i did in my last clip i posted



had me loud asf laughing " unh unh don't do that " 
lol girl you play too much i was serious 
my gma was like what's wrong w. you 
lol you jus too dang silly 
and is .. cause i can picture your face if you woke up to it 
lmfaooooo!!!
you must be on your way to work ?
nope not yet i'm drying my clothes , my butt fell asleep last night.,



is there a reason people tend to choose romantic partners that they look like they could be related to? like, a scientific reason
it's weird, buddies.
they want to have offspring that look like them because they want to pbutt off their genes both phenotypically and genotypically
makes sense to just breed with relatives then, que no
i mean they also don't want a child with extra toes we're programmed to not want to mate with persons we have known since birth
makes sense. what about gay couples tho
please weigh in. all my bio knowledge has been used up
lmao i think the answer is people wanna do themselves



i'm. going. to. kill. her.

my daughter. i was sleeping so well and she woke me up. smh.
dang my daughter is sitting here playing
and she's fast asleep now.
 motherhood
i'm about to put her up for adoption 
 zamn



i hate how i cannot sleep at nighttt
suck for u
no seriously
wyd
watching netflix. u
same here lol

what ? lol



taking my fine butt to bed 
shoulda been there already
i blame u b
why it always gotta be my fault???
always?
yeah i always gotta be the bad guy i'm sick of it *stomps the floor and crosses arms*
if the sdude fits rock it well you feel me pimpin
*sigh* i guess you right... goshdammit 



the politics behind this eric garner killing are unprecedented. doj to bring charges after edny declined. loretta will be gone soon too.
doj bringing it to show prosecutors are not tools and no one is above the law
the pba union lawyers are not skilled though will be interesting to see who gets hired
it's unprecedented that the local feds don't go forward and the doj steps in
don't know much about the edny prosecutor personally other than he comes from a family of decorated det's so i can understand his decision
makes me  how much black people have contributed to the laws and policies and fiber of the anglo american legal system think about it?
in regards to the politicians in power that saw their communities devastated &amp; wanted something "done" for their support.
nah just how much we have been pawns in the legal system and to the case law



westbrook, irving, curry, lillard, paul. that's my top 5 pgs an idc about yours
harden #1
harden barely in my top 10. he's still a sg to me
lol ur dumb
you're an ogre
while that may be true harden is easily top 10
you're dumb. if you wanna consider him a pg he just entered a clbutt that he's not the top of. top sg, not top pg
most of the top 10 point guards are 2 way players. harden ain't no 2 way player



came home shower get ready, but now i'm stranded.
what drink this wknd
automatic everyday if anything. where you was lastnight
midterms this week lol. i'm free starting thursday
alright lmk let's get it
wyd thursday night
turning up
aight see you then



some girls should not wear crop tops
ok sorry ill stop wearing them
some girls. you're fine mf
nope lol. ill stop wearing them
ok do you booboo
oh i will
i hope so cause i just said to do that
dont tell me how to live my life



soooo lssu has a former major junior player on their team that's leading their team in scoring... thats not legal#thingsthatmakeyouwonder
but if theres shenanigans there, ill take forfeits on the debacles this weekend.
he also went back to tier 3 juniors for some time too. coaches recruited him knowing he was semi-pro. violation?
i suggest that you refer this to your coaching staff.  tell lance that geof morris sent you.
is allowing it, even if the ncaa missed it somehow.
theyll read email.  :)
you must not know lance very well :)
okay, youve got me there.  i wonder if his # is still the same.



gad i'm full of itfluff i honestly wish one day just once i can write like squealing rubber burning spin out of control n not look back
i like what you write, no fluff that i've ever seen!
i gotta get some of that what you got in yah avi :))fist up pow pow lol funny was gona tell u other day how i like your pic
thanks, beez! fun pic taken last week at a bar opened in the 30's by a boxer.
oow how cool in the 30's i think this would feel amazing still to be n your there like time travel back n future combined :)
owned now by the son, his daughter waiting on us; she lives above the bar and her little boy runs around the place-dingy but fun!
awe now this sounds like a story to be written about :)
agreed!



in a week and i'm sad
:-( imysm, come back and stay for like 30 days
no
well u r a bootyhole
be quiet sage
i thought it was sapphire
when did we agree to that??
idk i just thought of it



somebody really slashed my tires yesterday lol
dang bro lmfao who you  screw over?
man i actually was being crap this time you know,
smh
i won't even acting up bro lol,
lmao you forgot her birthday
lol nah i remembered i told you man i was being a good boy smh
dang bro text her you did something that you don't know you did lol



you are what you eat!!!"this means that you are various vitamins and minerals"
does that mean i'm chorizo and sour cream right now?
err i mean booty
actually it means that you are just various chemicals that make up the chorizo, because chorizo is a sausage which is from an
animal that also has to eat something which means they also are what they eat, which also means so on and so forth
why you gotta get so real with me, now i wont be able to sleep after all these beers
what do beers eat to make them beers.
the sunshine and whatever water eats



do the indian groundsmen even bother to prepare a wicket, or do they just chuck some dirt down and stomp it in? #indvsnz
what happend in the last 3 odi s dont u know what happend in the 2 odi #ind lost by 6 runs in 2 ings its a sportive track
the tracks not sporting. there's a reason why india only win at home then get the crap pasted out of them all round the globe
then why do #nz gets high in opening part.. they loose wick in mid ovs its the turn over its not about the pitches. who plays
it's the dead pitches with no bounce that spin like a top. you never see india replicate this outside the subcontinent
what about the #aus #nz world cup did any one questioned even #indvsnz have spinners dont blame the pitch. improve ur game
nz made the final and india didn't you muppet.
in the 3rd odi #nz dropped #kholi s catch  its a match turning point !! #indvsnz pitches wont decide matches. it all in the team



really wanna start shameless but would also like to keep my sanity
doooo itttt...dooooo ittttt
i already know so much of what happens though id only watch it for ian and mickey lmao
same..i watched it only for them, however they dont really appear that much at first. but i fell in love w the plot&amp;other ppl
ahhhh i'll think about it 
i should probably continue it but i needed a small break from it lol especially since college  screws me up haha
ohhhh yeah schools  screwing my butt at the moment so i feel ya, there's no hope for me catching up on tv shows yet 
i know if i start watching it again i'll get hooked and i can't rn haha hopefully over winter break!



one day i will want to meet you because you are a person who adds to a person's experience - i look forward to that time
you are too kind!
i appreciate folks that are real, you are genuine in your expressions.
cheers mike!
one day we'll meet, we'll stare, &amp; then we'll drink as friends
lol. you had me at "stare"
one day. wear what you like but be ready to drink my friend.
have no fear, i'm always ready to drink! lol



my cat spit up for the very first time yesterday. she's over 2 years old so i was wondering when that crap would start. 
how weird, mine did too. but i'm not sure if it was a hair all or if she just ate too fast
i think she had too many treats. dang kids. lol
the dog kept eating all the cats food, so when i figured it out and fed her, she inhaled her food.  5 minutes later *ack*
ooops
dog cleaned cat's bowl. this went on for a couple days before the cat sat on my head and made her complaint clear
surprised they cat didn't beat up the dog.
oh, she does that regardless. lol






dude i'm in love with him  i neeeeeed his number lol
idiot you ignored him he's prob all sad at work rn 
i got nervous lmfao imagine he didn't ask for our names and i'm like alexis  he'd be like tf ? 
he did ask i heard him clearly  we already know his name and crap 
when he said i go to the gym we were both like  que ? lmaooooooooo
peroooo queee sexy
ahh i can't wait too see him tomorrow 



if algebra was a person... i would take its mom out to a nice seafood dinner and never call her again.
we have a test today too 
trust me i know...
you can do it babe!
i literally can't. i've been up all night and i can't pbutt these modules
yes you can mickey promise ya! i'll help ya today 
love you girl. thank you!!!
love you too 



i'm still waiting on all this free healthcare, college, housing, and money from the government, that everyone says us native americans get.
yeah, i could use a bit of that too
yeah, i really didn't care for paying the penalty for not having health insurance when i was laid off last year
the healthcare situation is actually better than when we were kids. but still not the best. er visits over hastings visits
man, i can't count how many times we had to drop someone off at hastings, usually in the middle of the night.
long drive to get told your std isn't a pregnancy
can't forget about the time i had to take marcus butler to the muskogee er when he got pepper sprayed in the dorm parking lot
i remember that, poor guy, he's a lover not a fighter



just pinned my first tweet on my profile! should be interesting....
you are so cute! enjoy your tweets.
aww, thank you so much, gail! means a lot! 
really mean it and your knowledge of music is crazy good.
oh, you're so kind! i'm just happy i can share my love of music &amp; country music with you. 
keep it up girl! 
thank you! will do! if there's ever anything you'd like to see, just shoot me a tweet! 
will do, from one night owl to another. lol



i always turn my phone off when i take shrooms i hate to hear that mf make any sound while i'm high
need to send me some
i think ima start selling em if i come to ms
bring some of that weed too! that crap so good
got plenty of that. i gotcha
when you coming down
but if you're in clarksdale, i can put you on with someone i deliver to
i'll be there thursday 



are you ok?
yeah i was in the other room. why?
with all the harbuttment and bullying.
one of my other tweeps knows his identity. he's got an autograph signing business.
good! so if he follows through on his threats we know who he is. they seldom follow through but be careful.
he's in the celeb industry. they get wind of him targeting people and his reputation is shot.
i've taken screenshots of the abusive tweets.
thanks love :)



i actually miss reading books rn. 
i actually miss the crap out of you
aweh vannie! i miss you too. college has been keeping me in my toes and i work on weekends.  i do miss you a lot.
dude same between work and school full time i don't even have time to breathe.
then how are you alive? 
i'm not dude
then how are you talking to me? 
i'm a ghost



please tell me i'm not the only one who hears j michael tatum's voice when reading jumin's messages.
let's be honest, if mm was an anime and if there were to be an english dub of said anime, j michael tatum would probs get casted as jumin.
i was just thinking about this the other day he would 100% be jumin
yes! i knew i wasn't alone in thinking this!
and i feel like yoosung would sound a lot like wdudever did the va for nagisa in free
definitely! i'm not sure who would voice seven though.
clifford chapin. he voiced hide from tokyo ghoul.
yes. he's perfect for seven.
right??? i can't quite figure out who zens va could be though?



nothin like gettin together with the guys and just having a good genuine conversation 
mf
c3 &gt; me

ain't even deny it!!
you know wbuttup lol
you can have him. he ain't crap anyway!!
omg
it use to be our gosh! you've become this selfish person . you should switch gyms!



this women really really knows how to  screwing piss me off .
@ me
nah all love your way boo.
lmao. you alright?
i can't stand my grandmother .
ughhhhh this idiot. you have clbutt today?
yup in clbutt rn.
we can chill after if you want!
i have work!



i need to smoke, this cold turkey  not going

idek why i'm up bro i can't sleep
nigga i ain't even been sleep yet smh i'm salty
ctfu nigga why
bro idk i just can't sleep
crap weird ain't it ?
this just my life bro i'm not a big sleeper
crap i am  a nigga need at least 5 hrs a night



checking amtrak tickets for blfc cabin, bed, private, bathroom, shower evetything $3400 4 days. flight 6 hours 400 round trip xd
*everything. that includes three meals a day with package. takes 4 days from my house. beautiful trip, love it but alone :(  
except for the solitude, seems like the trip one can dream of =)
it goes all across country and through rocky mountains. if anyone goes i will be happy to go too. hate alone trips.
sounds like a blast, but an excursion like that is out of my budget for the time being =(
someday*
with hard work, i'll join you one day for a retreat to remember, no slacking for me ^^
i would love to get a bunch of us together for a ride to blfc. #memories
would love to do that, and i'm sure we could find others =)



it is barely going to be wednesday and the type of  screwery i've had to deal with is beyond me
go to sleep
i just got off of work lol
yo, wtf rod quit?
yes over the phone 
but why tho
he got a better job.... and it's naomi's last day next tuesday lmao
wow she would be leaving 
our new gm is going to be from vegas hahaha hopefully she's cool



i'm stuck between wanting to cry and rolling a blunt
aren't we all?
unless you are police omg
am i gonna have to keep an eye on you? 
hahaha
that block button is itching 
did i offend you man? never meant to do that. 
u didn't i just feel uncomfortable. would appreciate if u had some pics or something
pics of me?



3rd grade teacher questioner we had to read around 1st few days of school my favorite song:2ofamericaz most wanted
@ a private catholic school they called my mom&amp;she took away my radio would never let me have a parental ad sticker #90sprobs 
took slim shady ep &amp; offspring americana tapes to elementary school &amp; got suspended 4 a wk. #wellworthit #1999
got cronic 2001 as valentines gift from my gf in 7th grade, and my mom found it broke it into pieces
on my floor when i came home from school and she immediately thought i was smoking weed. (didn't till i was 20)
i wasn't allowed anything with that parental advisory sticker
ouch, back in the day especially the 90s the best records had the sticker. you must have been in radio disney hell
ya catholic school private school kid i couldn't even watch simpsons flash to 2005 my 10yr old bro family guy every night
man i wanted to go to st. francis high in la canada soooo bad. but mom was like naw go to public school #blessingindisguise



i identify as transcisgenderfluid dirty laundry with a side of trashkin and aikin. also i'm a furry.
hahahaha sdhejshsn lmaoo
as a vegan crossfitter i am  screwing tirggered
i'm literally cackling rn lmaoo
you're  screwing scum, you deserve a seift kick to the jaw you oppressor
brehhhh lol
did you just buttume my gender?
 screw my bad
stop yelling at me



for the most accurate historical tours please follow pittsburghdan on the snipchat
ohhhh i loveeeeee snipchat!!! it is way better than snapchat, that's for losers.
also better than the snappy 
omg if i ever call it that please smack me
i've heard people use that actual term and it made me shudder like my spine was twisting up haha
yeah that is terrible
and how are you today? done being sick i hope?
oh yes, thankfully because that was horrible. now i'm just trying to stay warm. it's getting cold up here!
yea we have a cold snap coming. i busted out the heavy comforter. and the hot rum/cider drinks for during pens games 



long as im across da bridge to va before 615 im good lol
better get their
already ahead of da game 
goodmorning !!
wyd up
watchu meen ... i'm omw to work .
just asking lol u work in va ?
no bethesda
aw man i miss working out there endless good food



i should not be in traffic for 30 mins to get to a destination. this is unacceptable.
this crap happens every  screwin morning.  screw sa man.
we chillin up here in austin lol
bro i was suppose to be on my way up there but i've been in traffic!
oh yeah you sleep lol. coming down 35 you was gon have to leave at 5:30 .
the issue is i haven't even made it to 35
dang y'all traffic that bad bro? oh nah you gotta go back home and start over
this is every morning!
yeah you gotta purge sa bro 



but i can't miss out on some money
niggas still mad about those trash cinnabon's smh
 screwing donuts smh naaah but old fling hit me up on snap about you lol
lol same chick we was talking about?
naaaah this my southern yaams, she got a friend for you lol
ahh man chick probably look like freddy kruger 
lmao this the good part of the south
lmao idk my last south ting couldn't handle the pressure.
she was from the dirty south though



hey pal you up &amp; out? we still awake big baseball game tonight &amp; mom's team won. i don't quite understand that it's again. m
evening my pal. well that sounds exciting! xxxx
mom tells me she wanted to see her team win the world series before she croaks. last time was 1948 so they overdue. m
blimey, it has been a while then! bet mummy enjoyed watching them x
oh yes she's excited for the indians. it is quite exciting.gets her mind off this crazy election.it's crazier on a daily basis
oh yes. still on the news here all the time! xxxx
i wonder if youz as sick of it as we r it's on 24/7.can't get thru 1 program without hearing something. mom's phone acting up
mum turns the channel, barely watch any news now. always on the news x
i guess it's popular across the world. 2 weeks it all be over. then we be back to normal that we don't remember what normal is



peanut butter is literally everything does anyone in the world literally not like it i was so emo now i'm eating pb&amp;nutella feelin brand new
nutella is trash smh
oh..... my gosh. the first absolute wait thing you've ever said. how tbh
woat not wait smfh
if you were mbone i'd screenshot that and pin it.
where the  screw is my cool nickname
kbone sounds like a meth addict tbh
good thing i just grabbed some meth then wouldn't wanna b a poser
kbone the deal



i changed my handle again  lol
 annoying



you may be right.



i've peeped
lmaooo welp  i hope you're well 
i'm... going through changes too. 






i have to be up in a hour and still can't sleep. life is great rn 
don't sleep, that's what coffee is for
girl you for real know i'm about to come to our clbutt looking dead hahah
you and me both! hahaha all in this together
watch me on the news at 5 am 
omg i will!!! hahahaha
wfmj at 5-7am 
rock it!!
you know i will



for making himself relevant again by dissing drake just like everybody else tries to do
he's been relevant embecile
so u was bumping kid cudi in 2016 before the drake and kanye thing?
nigga yes like 2 weeks ago i was listening to his music while i was getting stoned

do that all you want
u can't tell me kid cudi name come up in music convo in 2016 tho
it does tho. you have to remember i'm an artist and i live in atlanta. everyone listens to everything here old or new
ahhhhh ur right ur right. i overlooked that fact



time to watch #scream season 2
you'll be sooooo freaking on the edge of your seat
i seen the first season just not the 2 . it's already good 
you'll love it
finished all of scream season 2 dam i had a feeling it was him , but of course it's gonna continue lol
did you see the last episode? the halloween episode?
no i have where is at?
i'll send u the link in a bit
okay thanks



ps and nintendo over xbox for me but i'm willing to pick up xbox stuff for my collection
so uhhh what are good clbuttic xbox tittles
as in og xbox?
yee
jet set radio future, shenmue 2, panzer dragoon, ninja gaiden black, otogi 1&amp;2, gun valkyrie, outrun 2
im liking what im seeing might have to invest in an xbox and jump on the team
theres also fable and the knights of the republic games(on pc too i believe)
i've always wanted to play fable im trynna get physical tho and have a cool collection
i feel you on that, yeah fable is cool. one of the 2 western rpgs i like lol



i'm in clbutt bout to die man
man change your faggot butt avi
idiot make me change it
u gotta stop that crap  watchu on tonight 
lmfao, ian got no moves, link up.
bet, ur brother bullcrapted last night
bout what
his lil crap
you know how dat nigga is.. ima hit yo line later and see wat you on



the warriors look like they forgot how to play defense.
no bigs will be a problem
need to get someone in there besides pachulia. he can play offense but not defense
i have more cap space then they do
gosh dangit 
i just wanna watch them play the thunder
me either man. westbrook is on a mission
i seriously love him
youre a liar you just wanna see westbrook posterize durant



i miss ameya so much
i miss you moreeee

how you doing
good , how you ?
gooodd
when you coming back to br ?
after ait , so dec or jan.
we gonna see each other fr i want pics in the meantime



"don't hurt yourself" - eu mesma hoje
eu sempre
essa musica ta gritando na minha cabea, principalmente da hora q ela fala " and keep your money, i got my own ... "
pra mim  sempre just give my fat butt a big kiss boy
sempre "you can watch my fat butt twist boy, as i bounce to the next dick boy"
amm beyonc
mas a que mais me identifico no cd  daddy lessons
amo! mas pra mim acho que  sorry
eu adoro quando ela fala "when trouble comes in town, man like me come around, my daddy said shoot" - parece q ela se prepara hah



trump's just announced that apple will start building factories and making phones in the us rather than asia if he wins. how?
trade deals / favorable tariffs. will be cost-effective to make in usa. if motorola could make moto x here why can't apple?
really? so a us govt handout to apple inc?
not sure what you mean. trade deals are a mess. i'm no expert but we should cater to ourselves first.
who would want a job in us that pays so little? or should the us govt subsidise them?
good question. look at all costs. make stuff here for free, no tax/shipping. low better than no wage. many unemployed (1/2)
(2/2)costof product maybe a lttl highr. companiesto innovate. effect oneconomy offset, longterm benefit. will findmore info
so its quite clear to me at least that its undeliverable. parts aren't american in any case.
part of it is certainly campaign rhetoric, for sure. lemme look at some stuff today. maybe i can find something informative



i'm in better shape than the other big guy at work, so that's nice
how many push-ups can you do
like, at least 7
yeah i can do like at least 8 just sayin
wow can you train me?
i don't feel like your dedicated with the whole only 7 push ups thing
not many push ups but i can bench 3 evans
no you can't
pretty close i'll bet



i can't wait to go to a concert and make a 300 sec snap &amp; send it to the ppl who make 500 sec stories of concerts in section 416 zoomed in
add me on snap
you tryna get 300 sec concert stories or dick pics?
tryna get kick pics 
your phone might catch on fire from all the heat
should i put it in rice?
for a week before i send a pic
peerod23 get ready for those 700 sec snaps straight from the pit no zoom
added you. i'm ready for it



i wish i could express to you guys how much i hate frank and debbie from shameless
it's ok
what season are u on?
1
oh lol i'm on 7, the current one
does it get any better or are they ratchet white people the entire time
lmao wtf the shows good dude. its south side life style they stay ghetto
south side lifestyle..?? who are you
they live in the south side of chicago dude lmao



nothin but a bunch of broke boys around here i'm disgusted. lol
wyd thursday
nothing, why?
lets go get food
i'm down
or tomorrow
we can go thursday.
ight i will hit you up to confirm cause idk when im gonna get work done to my car...
okay, sounds good



sup dude. do you miss me??
avi!! i do miss you
that's a really good answer
where have you been all my life?
i'm a gift from gosh
that didn't answer my question and i know you are
i came from heaven genius hence what i meant
okay whatever
come see me!!



boutta break my phone
that's why you need a android 
g crap boutta get one
i need a skype buddy so hurry up 
nah i can't cause someone said they'd drop me if i do
just do it 
thinking about it
don't think just do
i've been doing me fam



already regretting staying up this late..
hi
hello 
lol wyd fam ?
laying here listening to music lol, what're you up to?
you bet not be in ya feelings lol im just up doing nothing
i'm not , i won't allow it . whelp, there isn't much to do at this time of the night.
hell nah im about to force the sleep
same, goodnight !



i was recently asked by doc to take alexithymia test. think i scored 100%. no wonder i have such people problems, emotionally.
i hear you! i pretty much have to be in an intense emotional state to recognise what's going on, by then it's usually too late!
i'd have to be in extreme intense emotional state. rarely happens.
i wish i could say it rarely happens to me! but seems to be easing lately which is good 
actually i think other people blow up. i rarely notice things i should and then people get mad at me. i'm learning...
how are things going at home btw?
better, trying to work stuff out. i think my emotional detachment really did some damage.
i'm glad for you and your family! no doubt, but alexithymia is a legitimate explanation of that, which you've not long known 
she felt like it was a "life sentence."



had a good time at worship night with my love
are you going to atlanta in january??
they told me about it but idk
you should, the one in dallas was so much fun!
yes that's what i've heard and i've always wanted to go but i'm undecided lol but hopefully it's a yes
you better!! lol im going!
ooo that definitely hypes me up for it lol cause i actually know you today made me miss the old days in youth group
omg yesss!! i miss those days!!! you better go dude ive already asked off lol
bet that



welcome back turd!!!
nice to be back crapty
:) are we friends again
again? when did you stop being my friend though
i said hi friend yesterday and in the video you said no
you know how i be
fake? yea i know 

i hate you bye lmao









get tf out my bed
you get tf out of my bed
last time i checked, you sleep in my bed
last time i checked you stayed in my room
brb, gotta get dad and he's gonna call upd
kinsey got arrested lastnight for talking in the hallway
and keith



all i want is to continue representing indigent clients accused of crimes. why is this so  screwing hard.
do immigration work. it pays and you help people who really need it.
i've thought about it but there's not a big industry here
where is the closest immigration court? and why industry? we rep people not industries. mostly asylum, etc. tough work though.
i mean we have local firms here but they aren't hiring
don't you work for yourself?!
i do and i love it but there's not enough work to keep me afloat
which is why i suggested adding immigration to the mix. in your own firm.
i do really like this idea



i'd like my 28 dollars back
coulda hit me up i'm good at that crap
 screw really i want to die idk if it's just  screwed bc of the maker or bc o built it wrong :/
tbh i've put together all my ikea crap by myself so... next time hit a girl up
 screw ok i woll i might need to buy something else to build n like im bad at it like i cant even put lego things togeteher
girl i got you
 screw ok
should i take it apart n return it? or just bring it there with it together or try to build something out of it all
pay me in rockstar



i have zero dudes back home now lmao
the way it should be
ehh
i'm in the same boat fam
you in a relationship tho
i miss the dude-having lifestyle sometimes...the finesse that came along with it.
but i was legit  screwing my dudes. lol
i'm aware lol
so it's different for me 



you can name your dumb kid alfred or edward but i can't name mine thelbert, rdwulf, or angeltheow? anglo-saxon double standards suck!
my second is actually edmund which is like halfway there.
edmund is a good name. lot of good edmunds
hillary. i dig burke. the bastard.
big fan of edmund, the earl of rutland who died in like i don't know 1458 or something
wasn't he a big ol jerk who was set to be king but then got himself killed in battle? cause a lotta edmunds are like that.
he was cool but yeah he did get killed in battle. and his brothers were both kings, so maybe he would have gotten around to it
no i'm thinking of some other wars of the roses edmund, not beaufort or tudor will come to me.
i love england back when there were only four names to choose from



i said i wasn't going to do a morning mention again cause people don't really do what the mention actually says lol
but it does say fb or get unfollowed so i have options too
talking to yourself ? 
not really i mean just couldn't say how i wanted to say with this 140 word limit stuff lol

you the one that be talking to yourself..."donasia i think they on to me...oh really??" 
 nobody will listen to you like yourself.
yeah and people be listening to you too whether you know it or not like i did
shut up  leave me alone lol



why are you still up. get sleep. dam
wat time is it there?
in north dakota, usa it is 1:54 am
sorry for busy with my work.its 1606 in china,same district with shanghai
so dinner time. wish i could eat real chinese food. not what get in the us
haha,what kinda chinese food do you like?and wats look like in us?
pretty much most. shaschwan and hunan. like spice
ever had huoguo(chinese hotpot )?
you are making me hungry.  chinese restaurant is across the street.



ash 
ayyye von don 
what's up today?
donuts &amp; work  u?
might just drink a cup soup ya nw
meeda take one right now
that ago mek someone greedy like you more hungry lool
loooooool no g that actually full me
really nw
yeup! loved it and the one you actually cooked. especially that.



name a normal food that's not made better with ketchup... good luck.
mac and cheese
wrong lol good try though
while ketchup is good .....no way with the mac
i haven't so you're probably right but it's something i will try haha
how about any fish
i love fried fish with ketchup! eaten it with tilapia a few times too
your a brave soul
i will say i won't put it on steak.. my wife does that but if a steak is cooked right it needs no sauce
you have now been determined intelligent and smart....the wife can do whatever she wants



going to a haunted house friday? who wanna go
cute
i still ain't get the details fr i'm looking them up tomorrow cuz obviously you wasn't gone do it
i kept asking y'all when y'all wanted to go and y'all never replied. boi
i been ready but will y'all be free to go friday
i'm off friday but i picked up this shift from somebody  i get off at 9. how far is it?
it's at the prison here in jeff
ohhhh okay okay cool. what time you tryna go?
when you off and shaq ready
ok.. it's lit!



jim brown was at the forefront and did so much for athletes of color with muhammad ali, bill russell, and kareem.... but tonight? idk man
he was on some other stuff. made me kind of upset knowing he has a platform and decided to speak bs.
let's not get it twisted, jim has definitely used his platform in a major way at a worse time, but tonight i didn't approve
well tonight is exactly what i'm speaking on...tonight he was taking the side of the oppressor so i could care less
"taking the side" might be a reach lol but he definitely made it seem like because he had one good cop friend it's not bad cops
a reach? nah he clearly said the police are not at fault but black people are. not a reach to me
he never said black people are at fault lol i understand why you would feel that way. the indirect answers are the worst
who he say was at fault after saying police weren't ?
look at my last tweets. you'll see what he did. lol.
a town stomped?oh wow lol



don't even get me started on marie osmond getting 3rd.
worst freestyle ever but then again what do you expect from the worst pro ever?
i kinda enjoyed her at first like i was ok with her pbutting josie, albert, and wayne but after that she should've gone
all i know is her freestyle so that's what i'm going off of oops 
she was actually a lot better than that freestyle showed..... not finals worthy though like maybe 7th at best
i wouldn't doubt it. i kinda quit binge watching at s4 because i couldn't find a stream for it
look up her quicksteps sometime she got a 28 on one of them and 29 on the other. idk why she excelled at that dance but she did
i really wanna watch season 5 in full.
it's one of my fav seasons i think
mine is 19 atm



love jesus first. jesus would never condone a man like trump, you know this.
or hilliary commits murder with her killing babies in 3 trimester she said it with her own mouth and yes i'm 72 on ss welfar
so, you are against welfare, just not your own? lol
i'm agaist welfare for illgel immigrants i am 72 on fixed income 818 mo haven't had a ss raise in 3 yrs but illgels get lot
okay, teachable moment here. illegals paid 13billion in payroll taxes for welfare they will never get. they helped you.
and sent lots home to mexico and i do know that as a fact
i lost you. you aren't making sense
volunteering u don't know about that as greed is liberial agenda money money i do things for people free like read feed them
lol i'm at a nursing home 3 times a week
great don't that make you feel wonderful taking care of elderly i know i'm 72 hip replacement and knee but i still help



and i are the only ones awake at this hour
fam i swear on life we the only mfs up rn smh
like for real too bad we ain't working together. we would be clowning tho
etc we could be clowning  now 
right would make work go by so fast i swear
trrrruuuue
making that bank at 3am lol only a few more hours and we done #pucrap

keep pushing almost done
forever tired bruh



like why do people lie soooo much, i don't get it. why does honesty have to be so rare ?
everyone lies lmao
i know that but some people are just seriously tooooooooo much it's annoying like idiot i know you're lying lol
lmao i've met the biggest liars in life.. trust i know  that's why i never believe anyone.. but then again i don't really care to
i try not to care but you know me i care too much for people who don't deserve it
but that's just it... soon enough you'll be too tired of it to still care.. girl care about those who gonna care about you!
i just think they care for me too but that's when the lying comes in and you realize why the  screw did i give them the time
sounds like we need a venting session well lindsey!  screw who ever has you feeling some type of way! you still have beautiful
i'm not feeling any type of way i'm just expressing random thoughts in my head as i figure things out? ya feel ?
yeah i feel, well i'm here if you ever feel like you're stuck on something. but we can talk over coffee tomorrow (:



i get so wrapped up in drama from people i don't even know. i blame the loneliness and boredom on my end. #foreveralone
i offered to play #pokemongo woth you, but you went out of state instead. hmph.
wait. out of state? are we lost in translation? maybe?
you went to like ohio or something to catch charmander.
oh i went one day, but the nests changed literally that same day so i never got to catch them 
and then we never hung out. *dramatic sigh* *applause from the audience*
well then there was moving, and constant stress. that didn't help haha
its totally fine, man. i was just messing with you hah hah. im sorry that you were stressed!
nah it's all good. what's life without a little worry?
true enough!



you going to clbutt tomorrow
yes nigga and so should you
i really don't wanna
neither do i
let's do rock paper n see if i win we don't go if you win we go late
thats stupid
but it's not
very much so
how 
just be in clbutt you have a speech



you ever  screw yo girl while you mad at her and just wanna punch the crap outta her ? thats how i feel bout asha and we ain't even  screwing
what have i done to deserve this smh
tbh i don't know
get tf out my mentions
lmao i have love for u doe
i would have love for you too but you dont keep in touch man
dang u coulda just lied and said you do like i did, dick
youre the most complicated person on the face of this earth jeezus
u the one being extra rn
it takes one to know one



i keep trying to think again what gebutt would look like if no clamp limbs and picturing lelouch but thicc with a fat butt is still impossible
someone has to draw obese lelouch now
woke lelouch fv vcxcvfsdffsddvh
it was too far before there were woke headcanons someone please make woke lelouch
(lelouch voice) iit was n ntt. me  uwuu;; mmy alter zero wbutt ffrontibg;; im juss a smol brita nniabn;;
his alter zero snsbsgha agsvshsjnss smol gay brit... lulu uwu... did nothing wrong...
mod zero.exe has activated dont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithmedont screwwithme
i'm gonna dycjing lose it
princegender!system!ace!chaoskin!blmatsu!poc!obese!lelouch telling ableist!suzaku to  screw off
ableist!suzaku who's not poc!



someone just told me that being a spurs fan coexists with my personality lmaooo 
lmfao that tells me everything about you
 i don't know if i'm offended or happy. what does that mean lmao
i mean the spurs got rings so it can't be too bad 
y'all are insulting me on the low lol that's fine
you don't even believe that but ighhhhttt you got ittt 
yes i do, that emoji on the end is shade lol
how about this then 
too late 
i said what i said and in that order 



players like simmons and leonard are tough...pushes back against the soft label the spurs have
all facts, but i've never heard that rhetoric in regards to the spurs.
"too many europeans", not enough dog in them, blah blah been a off and on critique of the team for a while in hoop circles
i guess i've heard those opinions tossed around. never really equated it to them being soft though, but i feel you.
europeans always accused of that...kg himself would target euro players for being soft
true. i thought pop, david &amp; duncan were enough to disregard that label. they're "boring" if u don't know , soft is crazy tho.
they were boring when they had a slow pace with lots of post ups. lost to the suns and they switched it up. pops the greatest
yeah you can't really deny greatness after a resume like pop's.
gets this gold in 2020 it's a wrap
another ring without timmy would do more for his resume &amp; he'll probably get that if he keeps coaching another 5-7 years.



i have been up since 430 just tossing &amp; turning
this exam is going to kill me
that makes two of us! i just went through your snapchat thinking dang dedication!!
i seriously going to cry. i didn't know it was today til i went to my lab last night.
now that sucks, i knew about it, just did not have time to really sit down &amp; study. we will have to get together to study
true omg. i worked 6 days a week i didn't have time either way. ugh next exam we are cramming together dude.
girl me too! we will definitely do so in like 2 week advance 
true. i'm so scared to fail this dude
no seriously, thankfully he throws one exam away 
yeah i need my last exam thrown away






someone was too jumpy 
i was so bored that it seemed like i was scared.
just watch out at night 
quija got me  screwed up!
maybe you'll dream about doris 
 screw. that.
 it's okay just light that candle before you sleep
its already lit!! next to my bible!
it's okay i'm sure kevin will fight the ghosts 



good morning 
morning hun. how are you this morning?
i'm good thank you. how are you?
doing good, very cold tho lol
raining like crazy here.
hate rain  that mixed with cold. the other day it was pouring
yeah, i'm with you. lol
hope you have a great day and a warm one :)
i will, thank you. be safe and have a wonderful day 
you too hun



"jordan doesn't like anyone, he only tolerates us because he works with us".".
that's not true. you loved rodney.
the only thing i loved about rodney was his aid in developing the mcdonald's theory, regarding dating optimization.
"honey dip"
this rings no bells.
that's what you said when you spoke in his voice. or something similar. but i probably got it wrong, like everything
oh crap, i forgot about the rodney impression! i think it was something about doing whippits in the parking lot
it was! and something what he called his girls. but i don't recall that. it def. was about whip its though. still funny.
i only remember the whippits bit, and the clbuttic "yeeainneeknow"
the rodney impression, along with the phil impressions where easily my favorite macedonia moments.



support a corrupt warmongering evil woman like hillary?
because she's not and you've been misled?
uhm.... how would that be?
i refer you to your original comment.
have you not seen the o'keefe videos and loads of wikileaks?
o'keefe? that's a riot. he specializes in getting low level staffers to mouth off, then edits them to make wild claims.
dude; did or did you not watch the videos?
yes. and if you can tell me how edited claims of a low level wisconsin staffer make clinton evil, feel free.
ps why where creamer and fogel fired if the videos where edited?
because the were low-level staffers making statements way above their paygrade.



happy birthday babe!!
thank you bb lmao that pic 
lmao
ihy
so am invited?
to my dick appointment ?! why not 
i mean i guess 
staaa
wth i was all excited n crap:/
ok ok we'll go together lol
thashhhhh right



finna flat iron my hair
um for what 
 i just want to bro
i think not you can wait 
wait for what bro
to flat iron it dummy
wait for when headbutt
formal goof thought you changed your mind
yeah u still dk how imma have it lol, im trynna get a different dress so
mhm well hope you go bold
stfu ho



i need more info on people's definition of the word "rigged." do you mean literal vote-tampering, or a system of self-perpetuating power?
like are you saying there's an actual conspiracy here, or are you just it takes money and power to get political influence?
and if the latter, is this idea new to you?
when trump says "the election is rigged" to the media, he means "it's a biased system favoring entrenched politico".
i'm also curious how this compares with sanders supporters' complaints of a rigged economic system &amp; primary.
to those complaints, my response alternates between "no it's not" and "of course it is. you're just figuring that out?"
as a career public servant, it is often troubling to see experience and dedication to the public cause turned against someone.
i'm far more disturbed by the role of money in politics than the role of "insider influence."
you can relax about the influence of money in politics - it has only been an issue since the roman republic (509-27bc).
longstanding problems can still be disturbing problems.
"if money go before, all ways do lie open." shakespeare, the merry wives of windsor, act 2, scene 2



you watch greys anatomy ?
yes
me too, how do you like nccu so far ?
i like it. it's cool.
you have lots of friends?
yeah somewhat
what do you do for fun?
eat. partying. shop. chill. hang with friends.
do you want to go to lunch friday? since u like to eat?
i won't be at school.
what about today?



yeezus was for sure better then saint pablo. saint pablo was great but it felt short
did he at least start on time? i'm going to his nov 2 show
nope 9:30 ish
does he have an opener?
no just him

but it still is a great show tho !
i'm excited, i have floor seats, i'm just not going to wear heels lol if im going to be standing forever
don't do that lol! that crap looked lit af ! mosh pits everywhere
no lol i'm scared, i don't want it anymore
you have toooooo!!!



support a corrupt warmongering evil woman like hillary?
because she's not and you've been misled?
uhm.... how would that be?
i refer you to your original comment.
have you not seen the o'keefe videos and loads of wikileaks?
o'keefe? that's a riot. he specializes in getting low level staffers to mouth off, then edits them to make wild claims.
dude; did or did you not watch the videos?
yes. and if you can tell me how edited claims of a low level wisconsin staffer make clinton evil, feel free.
ps why where creamer and fogel fired if the videos where edited?
because the were low-level staffers making statements way above their paygrade.
if a walmart cashier started making up statements about how the ceo made decisions, how long would it take to fire them?



not going to escape, so i better go see ye
tbh would have preferred escape over ye, but wasn't gonna happen :(
dang , should have just shown up to escape in a wheel chair i would have helped raised you up during the sets
haha that wasn't the problem, i needed a ride and my sister wasn't going.
haha oh dang that sucks , should have rode with us lol
yea but i only knew of 1 person going and it's just weird to try and go solo lol
oh aww no rave fam. yeah and i tend to move around a lot stage to stage so i wouldn't expect you to tag along with us there lol
haha i know, too tragic. i wouldn't have mind but it depends on my schedule because i make them on who i wanna see 
lmfao i'm the same way but it's lowkey looking like i'm gonna stay at the bbutt rush stage i think it's chopping block
honestly, i would have stayed there too haha i was mainly going for hardwell but that did happen
but after snails i'll probably end off with hard well



ima really fight him
you better be talking bout someone else 
.... &amp; if im not?
im gonna be at your door step in 5 
not scared soo.... i'll be waiting to beat some butt
bring me food and ill let it slide
que quires comer?
que cres?
...hmm deja lo piensoi dont know
nothing pues 
okay okay i do know



quick, name me something more demoralizing than applying to jobs for which you are overqualified
applying to jobs for which you are perfectly qualified and not even getting a call
ugh ok yes i've been there too recently and blahhhhh
it sucks so hard
i am at my wit's end here
(hugs)i feel like that more often than i'd like to admit.
i sorta feel like i've made a huge mistake
did you quit your job
nah but i wanna
gotcha. i regret becoming a lawyer most days. i should have thought harder about this decision.
yes yes the days it's worth itcare gkorius. the rest? eh



getter dropped dragons by virtual riot, a riddim track, but i guess we're all just gona ignore it lol
right
oh my gosh were you there!?
yes!! i kept looking for you!
i was in the back gloving :)))
did you have fun?!
dude i had a lot of fun actually
same! so impressed with all the sets tonight
oh i  screwin hated the nick colletti thing i missed half empty :( saw half of aryay he was cool
aryay slaaayed! lawn mower is the jam
he closed with it  he played a lot more dub this time around



you watch greys anatomy ?
yes
me too, how do you like nccu so far ?
i like it. it's cool.
you have lots of friends?
yeah somewhat
what do you do for fun?
eat. partying. shop. chill. hang with friends.
do you want to go to lunch friday? since u like to eat?
i won't be at school.
going home?



checking amtrak tickets for blfc cabin, bed, private, bathroom, shower evetything $3400 4 days. flight 6 hours 400 round trip xd
*everything. that includes three meals a day with package. takes 4 days from my house. beautiful trip, love it but alone :(  
except for the solitude, seems like the trip one can dream of =)
it goes all across country and through rocky mountains. if anyone goes i will be happy to go too. hate alone trips.
sounds like a blast, but an excursion like that is out of my budget for the time being =(
someday*
with hard work, i'll join you one day for a retreat to remember, no slacking for me ^^
i would love to get a bunch of us together for a ride to blfc. #memories
would love to do that, and i'm sure we could find others =)
oh yes, i am sure we could. split cost makes.it more fun.  you could get three to a room easy 4 in family room
i'm sure we can talk at more length about it soon... if we split it 4 ways, i think we may be able to handle the expense =)



peanut butter is literally everything does anyone in the world literally not like it i was so emo now i'm eating pb&amp;nutella feelin brand new
nutella is trash smh
oh..... my gosh. the first absolute wait thing you've ever said. how tbh
woat not wait smfh
if you were mbone i'd screenshot that and pin it.
where the  screw is my cool nickname
kbone sounds like a meth addict tbh
good thing i just grabbed some meth then wouldn't wanna b a poser
kbone the deal
will be my banner some day soon cheers
congrats to me



what's the move
match 
wya
crib i need some though i aint got it
i'm on 21st
me too link up
i'm not mobile but wbuttup
shid we couldve copped &amp; matched but you aint mobile
dang i got mine
you got extra i can buy off you ?
plug in westwood



hhsur pep rally's ain't crapur student section ain't crapur sports ain't crap do u even have spirit days besides botb ? i'm curious .
okay stop  thats wrong
your football team wins sometimes .. the only thing worth being acknowledged is your basketball,wrestling, and water polo
every sport at hemet is better then wv ?
ya'll act like we ain't crap because our football team is the best .. but neither is yours lmao
like i said there is no sport at west valley better then hemet high . 
actually our water polo and swim are very successful along with our softball/baseball, and our volleyball teams ...
okay first your volleyball is no where close better then ours and baseball we won cif like a year ago 
we deserve just as much respect as ya'll do our players work hard in every sport just like yours do correct ?
nope cause if y'all did y'all would win 
welp i'm sorry but we will continue to respect and love our school along w showing nothing but support to our players



if you think about it, what's absent from the wikileaks emails is at least as intriguing as what's in them.
please go on, ron.
well, there's little or no substantive discussion of her health - neither confirming the spin of her camp or otherwise.
there's also very little about bill clinton, from what i've seen.
given the seeming candor if not recklessness of the stuff we have seen, there's a remarkable absence of emails about policy
it's almost as if this is a head fake - a calculated release of embarrbutting but unfortunately not really danging or &gt;
or criminal material and a studied absence of discussion about key issues, people and problems - complete with a media &gt;
and "expert" buy-in of this "russian hack" cover story to butture "authenticity" and imply completeness - yet virtually no &gt;
attempt to explain or deny the emails' authenticity. remarkably little. since when is the dnc shy about lying?
it's as if these were released to give the impression that we really have the whole story now and it's not that awful.
again, that observation arises from the gaps in subject matter, the lack of denials and the evident ease of the "hacks."
i'm starting to wonder who's really being played here and how. #wikileaks



wanna get my nose pierced so bad but i'm scared lol.
it's just a quick pinch ! i've had mine done 6 times lmao
i'm just a little pussy when it comes to piercings lol.
me and you both but yet i have tattoos 
lol i have no tattoos for the same reason, im such a baby!!
don't be! it doesn't hurt that bad with piercings bcus it goes by quick lol and tattoos you just have to not pick painful spots
i know i can handle the pain, but i just think about it too much and get scared lmao!
that's how my sister is!
crap if we can handle labor we can handle piercings and tattoos lol
ybutts girl ! no one has experience pain until they've been in labor
seriously tho, worst pain ever!!
right 



when i was in 8th grade i sneezed during the plege of allegiance and my homeroom teacher made me stand in the hallway for the rest of clbutt
omg who was it
hoos
i knew it was either her or carey lol
when my mom told her i got five "5s" on ap tests she said "i wish i saw that kind of performance out of him when i taught him"
(that's 5 fives in 1 year, i got seven 5s total if i remember correctly)
her and carey were the most cruel miserable teachers i ever met
he might have been before your time but ap euro "silva" hated me just as much, i think because i had long hair
mr carey used to squirt me with a water gun when i fell asleep in clbutt +say creepy crap so i put sand in his waterbottle
i usually think teachers should be treated better and stuff but hes a perverted piece of crap so idc
i tutored a girl in his clbutt like 3 years ago and he is lazy as hell at least in his curriculum
he didnt know why planets were round i had to correct him



built like a boneless wing tho
boy you built like a stuffed jalapeo pepper. gtfo my mentions bro. dont @ me
u look like a pickled pepper with ur plump pied piper plucker parakeet face butt
i honestly think you just had a seizure, you should seek medical attention with yo snap,crackle and pop built butt
at least i didn't miss the sack that woulda pushed dawson to the next round of playoffs smh
dang bruh, i hurt your feelings or something? can't handle it bro don't start it 
 u started it
you lucky i'm nice and don't roast your sports career on twitter. for that you owe me free laynes 
what sports career? i'm an engr major, i'm a nerd i don't play sports, what's sports?
i don't want any coleslaw with my laynes either 
laynes don't got coleslaw u sloppy butt boy
blah blah blah same crappy side item. aight chill i gotta sleep, i have a test tomorrow



160 days until the season starts. 164 days until opening day.
countdown mode! 
it's so far away 
i know but once when all the holidays are over. it will come by faster
especially because of spring training
yup!
i'm trying to go. my friends' team are also cactus league.
oh cool!
but clearly the angels are type priority.
to see them in spring training would be awesome!
it's a good thing it's in az. that way i can make a weekend trip.
very true



yo i got 104k my team for u
dang idk if i want that much. how much mut for it?
do u know the price of my team?
no i dont buy it. how much mut for 50k mt?
3:1 ratio cool?
if u need them now you can log in to my acct
its cool i can wait. how much mut coin u got?
i have to look, its like 600k i think. i sold some guys.
oh ok bro. ill probably just save this other 50k when u need it lol
yo ill just grab it all tomorrow
i'm free from 1-3 pm and after 9:30 pm pct.
if u get on tonight, post a card and dm it to me.



did i mention? im in love with switching positions wanna f**k you in the kitchenimma hit it from beside,he dontits a shame he dont 
nasty 
lmaooo stfu
no lol
you be doing the do 
lmaoooooo .
yea exactly can't say  i really don't do nothing 
lmaooo i just don't wanna put his name out there lol people probably out here lurking .
wow no  yea don't do that bro might get in trouble lmfaoo
lmaoooooooooooo   screw ! you funny .
i'm out . before we get somebody in trouble
lmao im out too



ready to get in the deer stand already!
im going sunday just to see if anything comes out and to blast the hogs that have been on my crap
where's that lease at?
livingston
you buy you a new rifle yet
no not yet been putting it off but ima hunt that stand with my shotgun &amp; ar it's only a 20 yard shot
have fun tracking 
nah they gon lay were they stand. hopefully 
hell not with that .223! i've shot em in the heart with a .243 and still had em run 50 yards lol. 30-06 drops em tho
i know i need to just go get that dude. the only thing holding me back is always having to replace crap on my truck lol
 screwing money pit lol. 7-12s coming up tho 
i'm ready for them 7 12's 



need to get some sleep
same
then get to it  or is it hot asf in your room too 
no not hot i just can't get comfortable 
i have that problem too. i bought two long butt pillows and they make it hard to get comfortable 
it's hard to get comfy when i share a bed with my two dogs  n they both move around too much
ohh dang. that's too much for me. i'd sleep on the floor 
like they have their own beds but still end up sleeping on my bed 
kick them out 
i can't  i love them way too much n they always get me w their puppy eyes 
that's why they do it. cause they know you won't kick them out. they have the power 
i'm like their idiot now huh 



so according to what i've seen, chad will not be on again until thursday. wtf??? #days
i'm fine with it. don't want to see anymore scenes with him &amp; gabi. the fewer the better.
i like chad and gabi as friends. i have no problem with it.
that's fine. i find them boring and shoved down our throats &amp; i see more than friends. jmo.
i love the scenes with chad and ari! i think they're adorable!
but he's not a father figure for her. sonny and jj should be having more scenes with her than chad.
it kind of seems to me like ari thinks of j.j as mommy's friend. she's too young to understand anything more than that.
it doesn't matter what ari thinks. we should see the bonding they  (gabi) talk about with j.j. and ari.
it seems to me like gabi's trying to make j.j and ari seem closer than they actually are.
i have no reason to not believe her. after all they have been together for a year. they should be close. -more than chad &amp; ari
j.j's only been a part of ari's life for a brief time.
i mean chad hasn't really been a part of ari's life since she was born. that's a stretch imo.



if he isn't obsessed with me , ion want him 

wbuttup hollywood 
like i'm pretty sure i texted yu multiple and i didn't get a response 
 i aint get no text
bs they all delivered
you can check my phone 
i can even check mine and in fact it even says yu read them 
you lyin  ion have my reads on  text me rn
now why would i lie? and why m? so yu can ignore them?
chill yo , blowin me up like that on twitter
jus wanted to let yu kno i'm doing ok



geology was dope today b/c we went downtown to look at the rocks of buildings &amp; even went to the tech museum to look at earthquake stuff 
was that a lab?
yes!!
is the clbutt called planet earth?
yes 
are you just taking the lab or the lecture too? whose ur prof for the lab?
i'm just taking the lab, i have colins!
awe i had loeb last year but it was a cool fun lab
aw yeah for a one unit lab it's pretty cool! dude being back in the tech museum made me think about senior prom! 
i went the other day too and i was like fuuuck all nostalgic and then i got sad thinking about what ppl are up to
aw i know crazy to think that was almost 3 years ago 
only got to look to the future now



buongiorno my friend! how are you?
good, hbu?
i'm good myself. waiting for titanfall 2 to drop already
2 days lol
too long lol
lol true. you getting it for xb1, or ps4?
xb1
aiight, i will go easy on you lol
haha you say that now, but wait till your begging for mercy lol
lol pfft.. mercy for you to put down the controller and reconsider lool
lol challenge accepted
on like donkey kong in a children's thong



my apartment was handing out plan b and condoms .... only at student apartments ..
stock up
that's when the low key dudes pop up
let them do what they wanna do it's how life works
whose man i gotta snatch
none cause we both don't got a man
but i'm snatching someone's
make sure he's good in and out of bed or we cut his head off
 dead
i'm jk don't be a home wrecker go get wined and dined lmao
we just talk  i'm wearing the cute outfit you gave me .. gotta put that to use
better be worth your time
i'll be serving looks



my favorite time is lillard time 
that's the best time! 
can't wait for them to come to philly so i can be that person at the game lol
you're in philadelphia?
yeah! moved here a few weeks ago!
dang that's crazy as hell! how do you like it out there?
honestly it's one of the best moves i've made. it's so fun being an hour away from nyc! it's a lot like portland in ways
i bet! i'm lowkey jealous. i love nyc. i think i'm moving to california tho.
see i was going to go back to california, but philly weirdly worked out better for me haha where abouts in california???
you all alone out there? or you got family? i got family in buena park near la, so that's where i'll be.
ugh i was gonna go back to la!!! no i have my best friend from disney here (thank gosh) she flew to pdx&amp;we drove back here!
that's dope, i want to come out there in the next few years my self! maybe i'll come visit! yeah i love la tho. 
do it!!! i love it because of all the history and stuff, but if you like portland, you'll like philly for sure!!



i'm a texan, going for a blue state. i miss ann richards. you can see my photo of her on my fb page, connie rose malone.
i love gov. ann richards and i miss her!
i knew liz carpenter. if you look at that photo, ann was leaning down and talking to liz carpenter. i wrote an article, 2.
wow! very nice!!!
ann was a travis county commissioner ...my county, before she was gov.
when ann ran for state treasurer, i worked on her campaign.
that's great! i worked on hillary's senate campaign.
wow!
nice to meet you.  i'm so excited and can't wait until 11-8.
me, too! i hope it works out. i know that it's going to be hard for her to serve because she won't be respected by some.
hillary works well with everyone.  she's going to surprise a lot of people.
i heard that she was liked in congress.
yes, that's true! very well liked.



halloween party is a costume party btw
can i come as myself?
for the past two years i've told rajae i want to be you for halloween but he never lets me do it
wait fr tho?
says no
but how would you do it
oh i'd do it and it would be awesome
you have to someday
when you're least expecting it obviously
for my birthday
would it then be my birthday too?
no
then i'm not interested



haven't we just come to accept tyrod being a game manager? knowing he doesn't really have any of his weapons
is it really fair to cast judgement on some of these pbuttes that he's making at this point because he doesn't have
many options
you just want to see him make plays with what he has. but he hasn't. it's troubling
well what does he really have man his 2 best targets are out and shady is hurt and if anything is troubling it's clay not
getting the ball
they're open.
make a play with his feet
some times a break down though, just asks for a qb to navigate the pocket, slide and find a new platform to throw.
line wasn't helping him much on sunday
give my film study a peak when it comes out this morning, you'll see what i'm talking about.
if you can throw me a link later on i'll check it out cuz i don't have the all 22 and i'm looking forward to seeing this
you got it



poor kate has been through the ringer. hope she is okay #fromdusktilldawn
i know right? i just wish she'd get the chance to kick butt. she's always getting hurt.
yeah. really hope she is saved next week
they can't kill kate. i already lost burt.
yeah. that sucked
i loved burt. couldn't they have switched his fate with sex machine?? burt was so cool!!!
yeah i agree. hilarious that so many wants sm dead 
before you added the weed to him. lol.
he was a huge buttet to the team. burt will be missed
yes he will. he and amaru stole the show this season.
madison has been amazing as amaru this season. definitely an emerging favorite of mine
you can tell she's got a great career ahead of her.
yeah she does. hope she stays till the end of series though



really not sure what to expect from miami heat this season
hopefully the 7th or 8th seed in the east
i could see 6th or maybe even 5th if everyone plays up to par and to the potential and it all starts with whiteside
idk eastern confrence has gotten way better, idk what to make of the heat's roster
it's a thinker of a situation but heat's roster is a ok one i'd say so ehhh idk
whiteside, haslem, dragic, winslow, richardson, and waitors are solid but idk what to make of the rest of the team
if those specific players can stay healthy and not be dumb and get suspensions or anything then miami could be decent i'd say
like i said hopefully 7th or 8th seed. knowing pat riley he is already planing for free agency 2017
nobody ever knows what riley gonna do, how he gonna shock us like he be doing but i agree with a 6,7 seed
the key to the season is seeing how whiteside handles being the star and how winslow &amp; richardson develop in their second year
exactly and we all know how whiteside's emotions can get the better of him oh man &amp; also i'm very hopefully of richardson
and hopefuly chris bosh can come back and play at some point this season. also i forgot about tyler johnson he can ball too
tyler johnson yes he good lowkey and it's an unknown situation for bosh, hopefully he can but i don't want him to risk it



not confident about tonight. think chelsea might steamroll us.
we have an outside chance but it's tough. a lot depends on how seriously conte is taking the competition.least we're improving
they have no europe so i'd imagine it'll be a strong team from them. hopefully it's a good game!
good point. hopefully! i'd love a cup run but honestly be pleased enough with a good performance and close game
this cup is quite short as well! 2 more wins and we're in the semi's!
yeah it's brilliant but don't wanna get ahead of myself with a tie like this!
definitely not. hopefully we get the job done. i'd take a nice win on pens! not sure my heart could handle it though!! 
odds on dimi to score a direct fk or solo run? or another lanzini v chelsea banger 
i'd be happy with any of the above!! i'd take a goal going in off zaza's backside!
i'd take an impossible goal from enner out in liverpool
i'd forgot all about enner until you mentioned him!  wonder how he's getting on?!
other than running away from police while playing for ecuador, so as not to pay child support, sitting on the everton bench :p
ah, good ol' enner. shame he can't play this weekend, reckon we might have a good chance of winning!!
not a good chance, 100% chance!



buongiorno my friend! how are you?
good, hbu?
i'm good myself. waiting for titanfall 2 to drop already
2 days lol
too long lol
lol true. you getting it for xb1, or ps4?
xb1
aiight, i will go easy on you lol
haha you say that now, but wait till your begging for mercy lol
lol pfft.. mercy for you to put down the controller and reconsider lool
lol challenge accepted
on like donkey kong in a children's thong
annnd i'll never look at dk the same
lol ahhh that was refreshing



best part of my day:student: *rolls eyes*me: i know you didn't just roll your eyes at me. you better be looking for your brain.
ewwww what ratchet would roll their eyes?
a boy that needs an butt whoopin from his mama. just 1 of 5 of my usual problem kids. it's like everyday his brain is reset.
ewww the sbutt at such a young age
seriously. note to parents: slap ya motha fcuken kids.
haha srsly. but you dealing with them hood rat kids tho
their parents were probably og hoodrats who shouldn't have reproduced.
yeah the kinda 16 and pregnant and goes out every night leaving their kid at home with the gparents
then when they actually take care of their kid, they feel they deserve an award for doing what they did...be a parent 
foreals!!! like "took my kid out for lunch"  bruhhh i can't even deal i know so many
"fed my kid breakfast, dropped him off to school, when's my 'me time?'" ha!
haha "it's hard being a parent" nigga you only babysat your own kid for 2 hours 
"shoulda pulled out" lol  parents need slaps themselves.
seriously! or wrap up if they can't take on responsibility



could chapter 3 setting be 1985?
can you tell your evidence or buttumptions for ch3 existence please ?
if iam not mistaken chap 1 and 2 are in 1984. with hideo doing glbuttes that are 1985 as a hint.
well, the plot ended at 1995 outer heaven where venom was killed there !
well there is a big gap in 1984 and 1995. he haven't got the rest of the story just yet.
what else do you expect other than disarmament scene/s ?
that is will unlock chapter 3,4,5
does these chapters include more scenes ? because nothing else showed up with datamining
of course from i get out of the fox engine. the code changes with each step. it makes its scenes in real time.
you mean there's coding for specific actions and voice acting but without video files ?!
speaking of data mine has anyone got a copy and not played it at all and data mine it?
don't know. what's the point of doing so ?
if so you probably only see chapter 1 i am guessing. hideo did in fact said he was scared noone would finish the game.
a game with a storyline only to be experienced by finishing an almost impossible online quest! let's wait and see.
i just hope we will see it soon. that could be way hideo is sad.



nothing but porn on my tml rn 
lmfaooo it's about that time
lmao  screw no
 my crap don't have those problems but ik i follow all the sluts and they active rn
u**
lol  screw around but i don't have to worry bout that no more 
word?? mbn bro
on me bro you can have that tho you got all the sluts anyways 
boy where they at tho my crap stay dry
what happened to the one you almost killed cause she couldn't breathe ? 
how many years ago was that
 on me that was long ago you at the lu now i wouldn't even 
nah man i don't go there
right 
i really don't 
good bro 



if any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. (1 cor. 3:18) #atheism #bible #gosh
yes your religion's hatred for intelligence, which sees right through it, is well known.
starting out the day being that judgmental can't be good friend.
says the judgemental one who views others as fools.
i haven't judged you. i quoted scripture. what happened was you read it and judged yourself. that's how the holy spirit works
nope, you judge others by the self serving words of your book.
self-serving? i'm trying to save you from eternal torment bud. and taking a torrent of abuse for it. get over yourself
"i'm right, anyone who disagrees with me is wrong and a fool." yeah doesn't get much more self serving.
this is not about me. it's about you, because you know in your heart that what i'm saying is true
you just proved it's all about your need to be right by claiming to know i know you're right.
you have been given the knowledge of gosh. you have no excuse
claiming to know that i know you're right is arrogance of the highest order. shame on you.
actually i'm referring to what the scriptures say. just doing my job and warning you that hell is real. #jesuschrist will save you
how you claim to know my mind is irrelevant, that you claim to is the point and shows breathtaking arrogance.
i know the scripture, which says that gosh knows your heart and mind, and the truth has been written there
not to mention, what a pathetically transparent "don't worry your head about why they don't believe" argument.
i'm not trying to convince you of anything, just laying it out for you. your response is entirely up to you



30 days until i'm free forever 

counting them down gf
i'm absolutely buzzingfor my main bf to be free
we've waited so long for this moment 
buckers wedding plans can start 
got the ring already, good deals here 
you know my ring size 
what do you take me for an amateur?
i'm yet to get used to your superior ways louyou impress too much
i'm pretty good
i am trusting your taste in 
it's a  screwing rock
ohawks...not too big though right? i've got little hands remember 
dw i got this all covered 
of course you have i shouldn't have ever doubtedhow we celebrating leaving the prison then?
by running away and never coming back



what is sleep
the crap you should be doing
i wish i could
rt.. listen to kodak he helps
i'm watching netflix hoping that would help but it just makes me wanna watch more so i might have to
rip hannah
hell no buy on some real crap that probably would've helped
you would of fell asleep like 4 hours ago
oh most definitely i'd get some good butt sleep too
now see why we love it so much m, and how good was home
oh my gosh it was the greatest movie ever i thought he died at first so i started to cry
moment of truth.. did you like lone survivor ..
i didn't watch all of it cause brielle wanted to watch it and she fell asleep but i watched like half and it was really good
i know every word in that movie
wtf do you watch it like everyday
used too
dang but i'm not even gonna lie that used to be me with frozen



my escape ticket seller just flaked on me!!still looking for 2 single saturday tickets to escape
saturday?? booooo
friday is extinct though !
sneak in!!!
lol i'm not a pretty asian girl like you that can just walk in 
i mean  do you follow the "rave exchange socal buy/sell" on fb?
yes lol that's where i've been trying to find tickets but so are thousands of others too lol
check craigs list!
lmfao friday tickets on cl are 350
bruhhhh wtd ppl are not plur hahahaha
right!!!! that went out the window when it it sold out lmfao
hella milking haha i wonder if ppl are actually buying bc seeing ppl willing to buy 200$ lol
 screw yeah they are you should see the page right now lol it's flooded with crazy people that are hungry to go
lollll so  screwing glad i bought mine &amp; don't have to deal w that crap 
thanks butthole hahaha
i'm telling you that venue is easy to sneak into!!
teach me how on thursday lol
okay! haha oh! i work 3-8 so would you rather get brunch??



this selena playlist got me jammin
i see you! 
gotta keep in touch con mi parte hispana
wait you're hispanic? 
you didn't know? 
quit lyin lol
you really think i would lie to you edgar? 
idk. would you? 
of course not, not to my future husband 
you right you right, sorry for doubting you 
don't let it happen again 
excuse me? 
you heard me 
we throwin hands now
we can throw hands, box, scrap, do karate, whatever you prefer 
oh yeah, we definitely throwing hands. on sight. don't let me catch you on my block
boyyyyy i hope i do catch you in these streets so i can  screw you up 
this is my block. i got my goons on the ready, don't try me



fun w/numbers on six flags q3 press release: a tweetstorm
six flags income dropped 24% in q3 b/c of compensation to executives for their likely success of "project 600" ($600m in adj ebitda by '17)
in order to achieve this goal, sf would need to grow ebitda by just under 14% from '15-17. this would be considered "aggressive"
problems: guest spending is trending down over the year, with per cap spend 1% lower in q3 than q3 2015 and up for year by less than 1%
q3 revenue was also down in peak months by 3% and ebitda was down roughly the same amount. earnings per share down 34%
six flags will indicate that expansion of holiday event should bring in new revenue, but trend of per cap spending drops shouldnt be ignored
very real possibility that their business plan is beginning to hit a wall. expanding season pbuttholder base has natural limits.
also addition of events has potential dilution effect wherein lieu of expanding attendance numbers, same amount just disperse over calendar
this means that while you still have to staff the parks for peak periods in summer, there are fewer guests generally arriving on off days
instead, they just show up later in the year.
tl;dr version: six flags growth is slowing/mb dunzo and may miss their projections but execs paid themselves like they would hit it anyways
enough, what about skittles
still not as good as m&amp;ms but both contain blue 1 which can cross the blood brain barrier and may cause neurocognitive probs
yeah that's the good stuff baby
if im gonna dement its gonna be because i enjoyed good butt m&amp;ms
m&amp;ms aren't in the skittles clbutt of artificial fruit though, also mars/hershey chocolate is objectively low rent
what is the pinnacle of artificial fruit? this is a debate i am for atm
well i would say skittles but also starburst are up there
i feel as though starburst via sheer size advantage are the more immersive fruit experience
they are so... juicy
yah otoh now and later should be destroyed and sent to hell



i love me some emma roberts and teresa palmer
emma roberts is sexy
yeah i guess i find teresa sexier for some reason
to each his own but i find emma sexier
i like emma movies though don't like her in scream queens though
ha sydney broke her phone  in nerve
yeah i just finished watching that movie and now i'm watching hocus pocus
you don't like john carpenters halloween
i do but my favorite is friday the 13th michael scars the living hell out of me
is the homie
he's now mine too much for me to handle
only demons scare me 
yeah i can't handle those movies either they give me major anxiety while trying to sleep
i can't handle exorcist
yeah same here can't handle lots of demon movies anymore guess it's my age before i could watch them with no problem
chucky i'll just start and lock  him in a room and burn it down
lol chicly is a little butthole my type of party lol
suck on him
lol
chiefs and fans piss me off like you only have one championship and no one remembers #generationgap



chiefs and fans piss me off like you only have one championship and no one remembers #generationgap
i wouldn't know i'm not a sports fan at all