Elsewhere I have set down, for whatever interest they have in this, the
25th Century, my personal recollections of the 20th Century.

Now it occurs to me that my memoirs of the 25th Century may have an
equal interest 500 years from now--particularly in view of that unique
perspective from which I have seen the 25th Century, entering it as I
did, in one leap across a gap of 492 years.

This statement requires elucidation. There are still many in the world
who are not familiar with my unique experience. Five centuries from now
there may be many more, especially if civilization is fated to endure
any worse convulsions than those which have occurred between 1975 A.D.
and the present time.

I should state therefore, that I, Anthony Rogers, am, so far as I know,
the only man alive whose normal span of eighty-one years of life has
been spread over a period of 573 years. To be precise, I lived the first
twenty-nine years of my life between 1898 and 1927; the other fifty-two
since 2419. The gap between these two, a period of nearly five hundred
years, I spent in a state of suspended animation, free from the ravages
of katabolic processes, and without any apparent effect on my physical
or mental faculties.

When I began my long sleep, man had just begun his real conquest of the
air in a sudden series of transoceanic flights in airplanes driven by
internal combustion motors. He had barely begun to speculate on the
possibilities of harnessing sub-atomic forces, and had made no further
practical penetration into the field of ethereal pulsations than the
primitive radio and television of that day. The United States of America
was the most powerful nation in the world, its political, financial,
industrial and scientific influence being supreme; and in the arts also
it was rapidly climbing into leadership.

I awoke to find the America I knew a total wreck--to find Americans a
hunted race in their own land, hiding in the dense forests that covered
the shattered and leveled ruins of their once magnificent cities,
desperately preserving, and struggling to develop in their secret
retreats, the remnants of their culture and science--and the undying
flame of their sturdy independence.

World domination was in the hands of Mongolians and the center of world
power lay in inland China, with Americans one of the few races of
mankind unsubdued--and it must be admitted in fairness to the truth, not
worth the trouble of subduing in the eyes of the Han Airlords who ruled
North America as titular tributaries of the Most Magnificent.

For they needed not the forests in which the Americans lived, nor the
resources of the vast territories these forests covered. With the
perfection to which they had reduced the synthetic production of
necessities and luxuries, their remarkable development of scientific
processes and mechanical accomplishment of work, they had no economic
need for the forests, and no economic desire for the enslaved labor of
an unruly race.

They had all they needed for their magnificently luxurious and degraded
scheme of civilization, within the walls of the fifteen cities of
sparkling glass they had flung skyward on the sites of ancient American
centers, into the bowels of the earth underneath them, and with
relatively small surrounding areas of agriculture.

Complete domination of the air rendered communication between these
centers a matter of ease and safety. Occasional destructive raids on the
waste lands were considered all that was necessary to keep the "wild"
Americans on the run within the shelter of their forests, and prevent
their becoming a menace to the Han civilization.

But nearly three hundred years of easily maintained security, the last
century of which had been nearly sterile in scientific, social and
economic progress, had softened and devitalized the Hans.

It had likewise developed, beneath the protecting foliage of the forest,
the growth of a vigorous new American civilization, remarkable in the
mobility and flexibility of its organization, in its conquest of almost
insuperable obstacles, in the development and guarding of its industrial
and scientific resources, all in anticipation of that "Day of Hope" to
which it had been looking forward for generations, when it would be
strong enough to burst from the green chrysalis of the forests, soar
into the upper air lanes and destroy the yellow incubus.

At the time I awoke, the "Day of Hope" was almost at hand. I shall not
attempt to set forth a detailed history of the Second War of
Independence, for that has been recorded already by better historians
than I am. Instead I shall confine myself largely to the part I was
fortunate enough to play in this struggle and in the events leading up
to it.

[Illustration: Seen upon the ultroscope viewplate, the battle looked as
though it were being fought in daylight, perhaps on a cloudy day, while
the explosions of the rockets appeared as flashes of extra brilliance.]

It all resulted from my interest in radioactive gases. During the latter
part of 1927 my company, the American Radioactive Gas Corporation, had
been keeping me busy investigating reports of unusual phenomena observed
in certain abandoned coal mines near the Wyoming Valley, in
Pennsylvania.

With two assistants and a complete equipment of scientific instruments,
I began the exploration of a deserted working in a mountainous district,
where several weeks before, a number of mining engineers had reported
traces of carnotite[1] and what they believed to be radioactive gases.
Their report was not without foundation, it was apparent from the
outset, for in our examination of the upper levels of the mine, our
instruments indicated a vigorous radioactivity.

    [1] A hydrovanadate of uranium, and other metals; used as a source
    of radium compounds.

On the morning of December 15th, we descended to one of the lowest
levels. To our surprise, we found no water there. Obviously it had
drained off through some break in the strata. We noticed too that the
rock in the side walls of the shaft was soft, evidently due to the
radioactivity, and pieces crumbled under foot rather easily. We made our
way cautiously down the shaft, when suddenly the rotted timbers above us
gave way.

I jumped ahead, barely escaping the avalanche of coal and soft rock, but
my companions, who were several paces behind me, were buried under it,
and undoubtedly met instant death.

I was trapped. Return was impossible. With my electric torch I explored
the shaft to its end, but could find no other way out. The air became
increasingly difficult to breathe, probably from the rapid accumulation
of the radioactive gas. In a little while my senses reeled and I lost
consciousness.

When I awoke, there was a cool and refreshing circulation of air in the
shaft. I had no thought that I had been unconscious more than a few
hours, although it seems that the radioactive gas had kept me in a state
of suspended animation for something like 500 years. My awakening, I
figured out later, had been due to some shifting of the strata which
reopened the shaft and cleared the atmosphere in the working. This must
have been the case, for I was able to struggle back up the shaft over a
pile of debris, and stagger up the long incline to the mouth of the
mine, where an entirely different world, overgrown with a vast forest
and no visible sign of human habitation, met my eyes.

I shall pass over the days of mental agony that followed in my attempt
to grasp the meaning of it all. There were times when I felt that I was
on the verge of insanity. I roamed the unfamiliar forest like a lost
soul. Had it not been for the necessity of improvising traps and crude
clubs with which to slay my food, I believe I should have gone mad.

Suffice it to say, however, that I survived this psychic crisis. I shall
begin my narrative proper with my first contact with Americans of the
year 2419 A.D.




CHAPTER I

Floating Men


My first glimpse of a human being of the 25th Century was obtained
through a portion of woodland where the trees were thinly scattered,
with a dense forest beyond.

I had been wandering along aimlessly, and hopelessly, musing over my
strange fate, when I noticed a figure that cautiously backed out of the
dense growth across the glade. I was about to call out joyfully, but
there was something furtive about the figure that prevented me. The
boy's attention (for it seemed to be a lad of fifteen or sixteen) was
centered tensely on the heavy growth of trees from which he had just
emerged.

He was clad in rather tight-fitting garments entirely of green, and wore
a helmet-like cap of the same color. High around his waist he wore a
broad, thick belt, which bulked up in the back across the shoulders,
into something of the proportions of a knapsack.

As I was taking in these details, there came a vivid flash and heavy
detonation, like that of a hand grenade, not far to the left of him. He
threw up an arm and staggered a bit in a queer, gliding way; then he
recovered himself and slipped cautiously away from the place of the
explosion, crouching slightly, and still facing the denser part of the
forest. Every few steps he would raise his arm, and point into the
forest with something he held in his hand. Wherever he pointed there was
a terrific explosion, deeper in among the trees. It came to me then that
he was shooting with some form of pistol, though there was neither flash
nor detonation from the muzzle of the weapon itself.

After firing several times, he seemed to come to a sudden resolution,
and turning in my general direction, leaped--to my amazement sailing
through the air between the sparsely scattered trees in such a jump as I
had never in my life seen before. That leap must have carried him a full
fifty feet, although at the height of his arc, he was not more than ten
or twelve feet from the ground.

When he alighted, his foot caught in a projecting root, and he sprawled
gently forward. I say "gently" for he did not crash down as I expected
him to do. The only thing I could compare it with was a slow-motion
cinema, although I had never seen one in which horizontal motions were
registered at normal speed and only the vertical movements were slowed
down.

Due to my surprise, I suppose my brain did not function with its normal
quickness, for I gazed at the prone figure for several seconds before I
saw the blood that oozed out from under the tight green cap. Regaining
my power of action, I dragged him out of sight back of the big tree. For
a few moments I busied myself in an attempt to staunch the flow of
blood. The wound was not a deep one. My companion was more dazed than
hurt. But what of the pursuers?

I took the weapon from his grasp and examined it hurriedly. It was not
unlike the automatic pistol to which I was accustomed, except that it
apparently fired with a button instead of a trigger. I inserted several
fresh rounds of ammunition into its magazine from my companion's belt,
as rapidly as I could, for I soon heard, near us, the suppressed
conversation of his pursuers.

There followed a series of explosions round about us, but none very
close. They evidently had not spotted our hiding place, and were firing
at random.

I waited tensely, balancing the gun in my hand, to accustom myself to
its weight and probable throw.

Then I saw a movement in the green foliage of a tree not far away, and
the head and face of a man appeared. Like my companion, he was clad
entirely in green, which made his figure difficult to distinguish. But
his face could be seen clearly. It was an evil face, and had murder in
it.

That decided me. I raised the gun and fired. My aim was bad, for there
was no kick in the gun, as I had expected, and I hit the trunk of the
tree several feet below him. It blew him from his perch like a crumpled
bit of paper, and he _floated_ down to the ground, like some limp, dead
thing, gently lowered by an invisible hand. The tree, its trunk blown
apart by the explosion, crashed down.

There followed another series of explosions around us. These guns we
were using made no sound in the firing, and my opponents were evidently
as much at sea as to my position as I was to theirs. So I made no
attempt to reply to their fire, contenting myself with keeping a sharp
lookout in their general direction. And patience had its reward.

Very soon I saw a cautious movement in the top of another tree. Exposing
myself as little as possible, I aimed carefully at the tree trunk and
fired again. A shriek followed the explosion. I heard the tree crash
down; then a groan.

There was silence for a while. Then I heard a faint sound of boughs
swishing. I shot three times in its direction, pressing the button as
rapidly as I could. Branches crashed down where my shells had exploded,
but there was no body.

Then I saw one of them. He was starting one of those amazing leaps from
the bough of one tree to another, about forty feet away.

I threw up my gun impulsively and fired. By now I had gotten the feel of
the weapon, and my aim was good. I hit him. The "bullet" must have
penetrated his body and exploded. For one moment I saw him flying
through the air. Then the explosion, and he had vanished. He never
finished his leap. It was annihilation.

How many more of them there were I don't know. But this must have been
too much for them. They used a final round of shells on us, all of which
exploded harmlessly, and shortly after I heard them swishing and
crashing away from us through the tree tops. Not one of them descended
to earth.

Now I had time to give some attention to my companion. She was, I found,
a girl, and not a boy. Despite her bulky appearance, due to the peculiar
belt strapped around her body high up under the arms, she was very
slender, and very pretty.

There was a stream not far away, from which I brought water and bathed
her face and wound.

Apparently the mystery of these long leaps, the monkey-like ability to
jump from bough to bough, and of the bodies that floated gently down
instead of falling, lay in the belt. The thing was some sort of
anti-gravity belt that almost balanced the weight of the wearer, thereby
tremendously multiplying the propulsive power of the leg muscles, and
the lifting power of the arms.

When the girl came to, she regarded me as curiously as I did her, and
promptly began to quiz me. Her accent and intonation puzzled me a lot,
but nevertheless we were able to understand each other fairly well,
except for certain words and phrases. I explained what had happened
while she lay unconscious, and she thanked me simply for saving her
life.

"You are a strange exchange," she said, eying my clothing quizzically.
Evidently she found it mirth provoking by contrast with her own neatly
efficient garb. "Don't you understand what I mean by 'exchange?' I mean
ah--let me see--a stranger, somebody from some other gang. What gang do
you belong to?" (She pronounced it "gan," with only a suspicion of a
nasal sound.)

I laughed. "I'm not a gangster," I said. But she evidently did not
understand this word. "I don't belong to any gang," I explained, "and
never did. Does everybody belong to a gang nowadays?"

"Naturally," she said, frowning. "If you don't belong to a gang, where
and how do you live? Why have you not found and joined a gang? How do
you eat? Where do you get your clothing?"

"I've been eating wild game for the past two weeks," I explained, "and
this clothing I--er--ah--." I paused, wondering how I could explain that
it must be many hundred years old.

In the end I saw I would have to tell my story as well as I could,
piecing it together with my assumptions as to what had happened. She
listened patiently; incredulously at first, but with more confidence as
I went on. When I had finished, she sat thinking for a long time.

"That's hard to believe," she said, "but I believe it." She looked me
over with frank interest.

"Were you married when you slipped into unconsciousness down in that
mine?" she asked me suddenly. I assured her I had never married. "Well,
that simplifies matters," she continued. "You see, if you were
technically classed as a family man, I could take you back only as an
invited exchange and I, being unmarried, and no relation of yours,
couldn't do the inviting."




CHAPTER II

The Forest Gangs


She gave me a brief outline of the very peculiar social and economic
system under which her people lived. At least it seemed very peculiar
from my 20th Century viewpoint.

I learned with amazement that exactly 492 years had passed over my head
as I lay unconscious in the mine.

Wilma, for that was her name, did not profess to be a historian, and so
could give me only a sketchy outline of the wars that had been fought,
and the manner in which such radical changes had come about. It seemed
that another war had followed the First World War, in which nearly all
the European nations had banded together to break the financial and
industrial power of America. They succeeded in their purpose, though
they were beaten, for the war was a terrific one, and left America, like
themselves, gasping, bleeding and disorganized, with only the hollow
shell of a victory.

This opportunity had been seized by the Russian Soviets, who had made a
coalition with the Chinese, to sweep over all Europe and reduce it to a
state of chaos.

America, industrially geared to world production and the world trade,
collapsed economically, and there ensued a long period of stagnation and
desperate attempts at economic reconstruction. But it was impossible to
stave off war with the Mongolians, who by now had subjugated the
Russians, and were aiming at a world empire.

In about 2109, it seems, the conflict was finally precipitated. The
Mongolians, with overwhelming fleets of great airships, and a science
that far outstripped that of crippled America, swept in over the Pacific
and Atlantic Coasts, and down from Canada, annihilating American
aircraft, armies and cities with their terrific _disintegrator_ rays.
These rays were projected from a machine not unlike a searchlight in
appearance, the reflector of which, however, was not material substance,
but a complicated balance of interacting electronic forces. This
resulted in a terribly destructive beam. Under its influence, material
substance melted into "nothingness"; i. e., into electronic vibrations.
It destroyed all then known substances, from air to the most dense
metals and stone.

They settled down to the establishment of what became known as the Han
dynasty in America, as a sort of province in their World Empire.

Those were terrible days for the Americans. They were hunted like wild
beasts. Only those survived who finally found refuge in mountains,
canyons and forests. Government was at an end among them. Anarchy
prevailed for several generations. Most would have been eager to submit
to the Hans, even if it meant slavery. But the Hans did not want them,
for they themselves had marvelous machinery and scientific process by
which all difficult labor was accomplished.

Ultimately they stopped their active search for, and annihilation of,
the widely scattered groups of now savage Americans. So long as they
remained hidden in their forests, and did not venture near the great
cities the Hans had built, little attention was paid to them.

Then began the building of the new American civilization. Families and
individuals gathered together in clans or "gangs" for mutual protection.
For nearly a century they lived a nomadic and primitive life, moving
from place to place, in desperate fear of the casual and occasional Han
air raids, and the terrible disintegrator ray. As the frequency of these
raids decreased, they began to stay permanently in given localities,
organizing upon lines which in many respects were similar to those of
the military households of the Norman feudal barons, except that instead
of gathering together in castles, their defense tactics necessitated a
certain scattering of living quarters for families and individuals. They
lived virtually in the open air, in the forests, in green tents,
resorting to camouflage tactics that would conceal their presence from
air observers. They dug underground factories and laboratories, that
they might better be shielded from the electrical detectors of the
Hans. They tapped the radio communication lines of the Hans, with crude
instruments at first; better ones later on. They bent every effort
toward the redevelopment of science. For many generations they labored
as unseen, unknown scholars of the Hans, picking up their knowledge
piecemeal, as fast as they were able to.

During the earlier part of this period, there were many deadly wars
fought between the various gangs, and occasional courageous but
childishly futile attacks upon the Hans, followed by terribly punitive
raids.

But as knowledge progressed, the sense of American brotherhood
redeveloped. Reciprocal arrangements were made among the gangs over
constantly increasing areas. Trade developed to a certain extent, as
between one gang and another. But the interchange of knowledge became
more important than that of goods, as skill in the handling of synthetic
processes developed.

Within the gang, an economy was developed that was a compromise between
individual liberty and a military socialism. The right of private
property was limited practically to personal possessions, but private
privileges were many, and sacredly regarded. Stimulation to achievement
lay chiefly in the winning of various kinds of leadership and
prerogatives, and only in a very limited degree in the hope of owning
anything that might be classified as "wealth," and nothing that might be
classified as "resources." Resources of every description, for military
safety and efficiency, belonged as a matter of public interest to the
community as a whole.

In the meantime, through these many generations, the Hans had developed
a luxury economy, and with it the perfection of gilded vice and
degradation. The Americans were regarded as "wild men of the woods." And
since they neither needed nor wanted the woods or the wild men, they
treated them as beasts, and were conscious of no human brotherhood with
them. As time went on, and synthetic processes of producing foods and
materials were further developed, less and less ground was needed by the
Hans for the purposes of agriculture, and finally, even the working of
mines was abandoned when it became cheaper to build up metal from
electronic vibrations than to dig them out of the ground.

The Han race, devitalized by its vices and luxuries, with machinery and
scientific processes to satisfy its every want, with virtually no
necessity of labor, began to assume a defensive attitude toward the
Americans.

And quite naturally, the Americans regarded the Hans with a deep, grim
hatred. Conscious of individual superiority as men, knowing that
latterly they were outstripping the Hans in science and civilization,
they longed desperately for the day when they should be powerful enough
to rise and annihilate the Yellow Blight that lay over the continent.

At the time of my awakening, the gangs were rather loosely organized,
but were considering the establishment of a special military force,
whose special business it would be to harry the Hans and bring down
their air ships whenever possible without causing general alarm among
the Mongolians. This force was destined to become the nucleus of the
national force, when the Day of Retribution arrived. But that, however,
did not happen for ten years, and is another story.

[Illustration: On the left of the illustration is a Han girl, and on the
right is an American girl, who, like all of her race, is equipped with
an inertron belt and a rocket gun.]

Wilma told me she was a member of the Wyoming Gang, which claimed the
entire Wyoming Valley as its territory, under the leadership of Boss
Hart. Her mother and father were dead, and she was unmarried, so she was
not a "family member." She lived in a little group of tents known as
Camp 17, under a woman Camp Boss, with seven other girls.

Her duties alternated between military or police scouting and factory
work. For the two-week period which would end the next day, she had been
on "air patrol." This did not mean, as I first imagined, that she was
flying, but rather that she was on the lookout for Han ships over this
outlying section of the Wyoming territory, and had spent most of her
time perched in the tree tops scanning the skies. Had she seen one she
would have fired a "drop flare" several miles off to one side, which
would ignite when it was floating vertically toward the earth, so that
the direction or point from which it had been fired might not be guessed
by the airship and bring a blasting play of the disintegrator ray in her
vicinity. Other members of the air patrol would send up rockets on
seeing hers, until finally a scout equipped with an ultrophone, which,
unlike the ancient radio, operated on the ultronic ethereal vibrations,
would pass the warning simultaneously to the headquarters of the Wyoming
Gang and other communities within a radius of several hundred miles, not
to mention the few American rocket ships that might be in the air, and
which instantly would duck to cover either through forest clearings or
by flattening down to earth in green fields where their coloring would
probably protect them from observation. The favorite American method of
propulsion was known as "_rocketing_." The _rocket_ is what I would
describe, from my 20th Century comprehension of the matter, as an
extremely powerful gas blast, atomically produced through the
stimulation of chemical action. Scientists of today regard it as a
childishly simple reaction, but by that very virtue, most economical and
efficient.

But tomorrow, she explained, she would go back to work in the cloth
plant, where she would take charge of one of the synthetic processes by
which those wonderful substitutes for woven fabrics of wool, cotton and
silk are produced. At the end of another two weeks, she would be back on
military duty again, perhaps at the same work, or maybe as a "contact
guard," on duty where the territory of the Wyomings merged with that of
the Delawares, or the "Susquannas" (Susquehannas) or one of the half
dozen other "gangs" in that section of the country which I knew as
Pennsylvania and New York States.

Wilma cleared up for me the mystery of those flying leaps which she and
her assailants had made, and explained in the following manner, how the
inertron belt balances weight:

"_Jumpers_" were in common use at the time I "awoke," though they were
costly, for at that time _inertron_ had not been produced in very great
quantity. They were very useful in the forest. They were belts,
strapped high under the arms, containing an amount of inertron adjusted
to the wearer's weight and purposes. In effect they made a man weigh as
little as he desired; two pounds if he liked.

"_Floaters_" are a later development of "_jumpers_"--rocket motors
encased in _inertron_ blocks and strapped to the back in such a way that
the wearer floats, when drifting, facing slightly downward. With his
motor in operation, he moves like a diver, headforemost, controlling his
direction by twisting his body and by movements of his outstretched arms
and hands. Ballast weights locked in the front of the belt adjust weight
and lift. Some men prefer a few ounces of weight in floating, using a
slight motor thrust to overcome this. Others prefer a buoyance balance
of a few ounces. The inadvertent dropping of weight is not a serious
matter. The motor thrust always can be used to descend. But as an extra
precaution, in case the motor should fail, for any reason, there are
built into every belt a number of detachable sections, one or more of
which can be discarded to balance off any loss in weight.

"But who were your assailants," I asked, "and why were you attacked?"

Her assailants, she told me, were members of an outlaw gang, referred to
as "Bad Bloods," a group which for several generations had been under
the domination of conscienceless leaders who tried to advance the
interests of their clan by tactics which their neighbors had come to
regard as unfair, and who in consequence had been virtually boycotted.
Their purpose had been to slay her near the Delaware frontier, making it
appear that the crime had been committed by Delaware scouts and thus
embroil the Delawares and Wyomings in acts of reprisal against each
other, or at least cause suspicions.

Fortunately they had not succeeded in surprising her, and she had been
successful in dodging them for some two hours before the shooting began,
at the moment when I arrived on the scene.

"But we must not stay here talking," Wilma concluded. "I have to take
you in, and besides I must report this attack right away. I think we had
better slip over to the other side of the mountain. Whoever is on that
post will have a phone, and I can make a direct report. But you'll have
to have a belt. Mine alone won't help much against our combined weights,
and there's little to be gained by jumping heavy. It's almost as bad as
walking."

After a little search, we found one of the men I had killed, who had
floated down among the trees some distance away and whose belt was not
badly damaged. In detaching it from his body, it nearly got away from me
and shot up in the air. Wilma caught it, however, and though it
reinforced the lift of her own belt so that she had to hook her knee
around a branch to hold herself down, she saved it. I climbed the tree
and, with my weight added to hers, we floated down easily.




CHAPTER III

Life in the 25th Century


We were delayed in starting for quite a while since I had to acquire a
few crude ideas about the technique of using these belts. I had been
sitting down, for instance, with the belt strapped about me, enjoying an
ease similar to that of a comfortable armchair; when I stood up with a
natural exertion of muscular effort, I shot ten feet into the air, with
a wild instinctive thrashing of arms and legs that amused Wilma greatly.

But after some practice, I began to get the trick of gauging muscular
effort to a minimum of vertical and a maximum of horizontal. The correct
form, I found, was in a measure comparable to that of skating. I found,
also, that in forest work particularly the arms and hands could be used
to great advantage in swinging along from branch to branch, so
prolonging leaps almost indefinitely at times.

In going up the side of the mountain, I found that my 20th Century
muscles did have an advantage, in spite of lack of skill with the belt,
and since the slopes were very sharp, and most of our leaps were upward,
I could have distanced Wilma easily. But when we crossed the ridge and
descended, she outstripped me with her superior technique. Choosing the
steepest slopes, she would crouch in the top of a tree, and propel
herself outward, literally diving until, with the loss of horizontal
momentum, she would assume a more upright position and float downward.
In this manner she would sometimes cover as much as a quarter of a mile
in a single leap, while I leaped and scrambled clumsily behind,
thoroughly enjoying the novel sensation.

Half way down the mountain, we saw another green-clad figure leap out
above the tree tops toward us. The three of us perched on an outcropping
of rock from which a view for many miles around could be had, while
Wilma hastily explained her adventure and my presence to her fellow
guard; whose name was Alan. I learned later that this was the modern
form of Helen.

"You want to report by phone then, don't you?" Alan took a compact
packet about six inches square from a holster attached to her belt and
handed it to Wilma.

So far as I could see, it had no special receiver for the ear. Wilma
merely threw back a lid, as though she were opening a book, and began to
talk. The voice that came back from the machine was as audible as her
own.

She was queried closely as to the attack upon her, and at considerable
length as to myself, and I could tell from the tone of that voice that
its owner was not prepared to take me at my face value as readily as
Wilma had. For that matter, neither was the other girl. I could realize
it from the suspicious glances she threw my way, when she thought my
attention was elsewhere, and the manner in which her hand hovered
constantly near her gun holster.

Wilma was ordered to bring me in at once, and informed that another
scout would take her place on the other side of the mountain. So she
closed down the lid of the phone and handed it back to Alan, who seemed
relieved to see us departing over the tree tops in the direction of the
camps.

We had covered perhaps ten miles, in what still seemed to me a
surprisingly easy fashion, when Wilma explained, that from here on we
would have to keep to the ground. We were nearing the camps, she said,
and there was always the possibility that some small Han scoutship,
invisible high in the sky, might catch sight of us through a
projectoscope and thus find the general location of the camps.

Wilma took me to the Scout office, which proved to be a small building
of irregular shape, conforming to the trees around it, and substantially
constructed of green sheet-like material.

I was received by the assistant Scout Boss, who reported my arrival at
once to the historical office, and to officials he called the Psycho
Boss and the History Boss, who came in a few minutes later. The attitude
of all three men was at first polite but skeptical, and Wilma's ardent
advocacy seemed to amuse them secretly.

For the next two hours I talked, explained and answered questions. I had
to explain, in detail, the manner of my life in the 20th Century and my
understanding of customs, habits, business, science and the history of
that period, and about developments in the centuries that had elapsed.
Had I been in a classroom, I would have come through the examination
with a very poor mark, for I was unable to give any answer to fully half
of their questions. But before long I realized that the majority of
these questions were designed as traps. Objects, of whose purpose I knew
nothing, were casually handed to me, and I was watched keenly as I
handled them.

In the end I could see both amazement and belief begin to show in the
faces of my inquisitors, and at last the Historical and Psycho Bosses
agreed openly that they could find no flaw in my story or reactions, and
that unbelievable as it seemed, my story must be accepted as genuine.

They took me at once to Big Boss Hart. He was a portly man with a "poker
face." He would probably have been the successful politician even in the
20th Century.

They gave him a brief outline of my story and a report of their
examination of me. He made no comment other than to nod his acceptance
of it. Then he turned to me.

"How does it feel?" he asked. "Do we look funny to you?"

"A bit strange," I admitted. "But I'm beginning to lose that dazed
feeling, though I can see I have an awful lot to learn."

"Maybe we can learn some things from you, too," he said. "So you fought
in the First World War. Do you know, we have very little left in the way
of records of the details of that war, that is, the precise conditions
under which it was fought, and the tactics employed. We forgot many
things during the Han terror, and--well, I think you might have a lot of
ideas worth thinking over for our raid masters. By the way, now that
you're here, and can't go back to your own century, so to speak, what do
you want to do? You're welcome to become one of us. Or perhaps you'd
just like to visit with us for a while, and then look around among the
other gangs. Maybe you'd like some of the others better. Don't make up
your mind now. We'll put you down as an exchange for a while. Let's see.
You and Bill Hearn ought to get along well together. He's Camp Boss of
Number 34 when he isn't acting as Raid Boss or Scout Boss. There's a
vacancy in his camp. Stay with him and think things over as long as you
want to. As soon as you make up your mind to anything, let me know."

We all shook hands, for that was one custom that had not died out in
five hundred years, and I set out with Bill Hearn.

Bill, like all the others, was clad in green. He was a big man. That is,
he was about my own height, five feet eleven. This was considerably
above the average now, for the race had lost something in stature, it
seemed, through the vicissitudes of five centuries. Most of the women
were a bit below five feet, and the men only a trifle above this height.

For a period of two weeks Bill was to confine himself to camp duties, so
I had a good chance to familiarize myself with the community life. It
was not easy. There were so many marvels to absorb. I never ceased to
wonder at the strange combination of rustic social life and feverish
industrial activity. At least, it was strange to me. For in my
experience, industrial development meant crowded cities, tenements,
paved streets, profusion of vehicles, noise, hurrying men and women with
strained or dull faces, vast structures and ornate public works.

Here, however, was rustic simplicity, apparently isolated families and
groups, living in the heart of the forest, with a quarter of a mile or
more between households, a total absence of crowds, no means of
conveyance other than the belts called jumpers, almost constantly worn
by everybody, and an occasional rocket ship, used only for longer
journeys, and underground plants or factories that were to my mind more
like laboratories and engine rooms; many of them were excavations as
deep as mines, with well finished, lighted and comfortable interiors.
These people were adepts at camouflage against air observation. Not only
would their activity have been unsuspected by an airship passing over
the center of the community, but even by an enemy who might happen to
drop through the screen of the upper branches to the floor of the
forest. The camps, or household structures, were all irregular in shape
and of colors that blended with the great trees among which they were
hidden.

There were 724 dwellings or "camps" among the Wyomings, located within
an area of about fifteen square miles. The total population was 8,688,
every man, woman and child, whether member or "exchange," being listed.

The plants were widely scattered through the territory also. Nowhere was
anything like congestion permitted. So far as possible, families and
individuals were assigned to living quarters, not too far from the
plants or offices in which their work lay.

All able-bodied men and women alternated in two-week periods between
military and industrial service, except those who were needed for
household work. Since working conditions in the plants and offices were
ideal, and everybody thus had plenty of healthy outdoor activity in
addition, the population was sturdy and active. Laziness was regarded as
nearly the greatest of social offenses. Hard work and general merit were
variously rewarded with extra privileges, advancement to positions of
authority, and with various items of personal equipment for convenience
and luxury.

In leisure moments, I got great enjoyment from sitting outside the
dwelling in which I was quartered with Bill Hearn and ten other men,
watching the occasional passers-by, as with leisurely, but swift
movements, they swung up and down the forest trail, rising from the
ground in long almost-horizontal leaps, occasionally swinging from one
convenient branch overhead to another before "sliding" back to the
ground farther on. Normal traveling pace, where these trails were
straight enough, was about twenty miles an hour. Such things as
automobiles and railroad trains (the memory of them not more than a
month old in my mind) seemed inexpressibly silly and futile compared
with such convenience as these belts or jumpers offered.

Bill suggested that I wander around for several days, from plant to
plant, to observe and study what I could. The entire community had been
apprised of my coming, my rating as an "exchange" reaching every
building and post in the community, by means of ultronic broadcast.
Everywhere I was welcomed in an interested and helpful spirit.

I visited the plants where ultronic vibrations were isolated from the
ether and through slow processes built up into sub-electronic,
electronic and atomic forms into the two great synthetic elements,
ultron and inertron. I learned something, superficially at least, of the
processes of combined chemical and mechanical action through which were
produced the various forms of synthetic cloth. I watched the manufacture
of the machines which were used at locations of construction to produce
the various forms of building materials. But I was particularly
interested in the munitions plants and the rocket-ship shops.

Ultron is a solid of great molecular density and moderate elasticity,
which has the property of being 100 percent conductive to those
pulsations known as light, electricity and heat. Since it is completely
permeable to light vibrations, it is therefore _absolutely invisible and
non-reflective_. Its magnetic response is almost, but not quite, 100
percent also. It is therefore very heavy under normal conditions but
extremely responsive to the _repellor_ or anti-gravity rays, such as the
Hans use as "_legs_" for their airships.

Inertron is the second great triumph of American research and
experimentation with ultronic forces. It was developed just a few years
before my awakening in the abandoned mine. It is a synthetic element,
built up, through a complicated heterodyning of ultronic pulsations,
from "infra-balanced" sub-ionic forms. It is completely inert to both
electric and magnetic forces in all the orders above the _ultronic_;
that is to say, the _sub-electronic_, the _electronic_, the _atomic_ and
the _molecular_. In consequence it has a number of amazing and
valuable properties. One of these is _the total lack of weight_. Another
is a total lack of heat. It has no molecular vibration whatever. It
reflects 100 percent of the heat and light impinging upon it. It does
not feel cold to the touch, of course, since it will not absorb the heat
of the hand. It is a solid, very dense in molecular structure despite
its lack of weight, of great strength and considerable elasticity. It is
a perfect shield against the disintegrator rays.

[Illustration: Setting his rocket gun for a long-distance shot.]

Rocket guns are very simple contrivances so far as the mechanism of
launching the bullet is concerned. They are simple light tubes, closed
at the rear end, with a trigger-actuated pin for piercing the thin skin
at the base of the cartridge. This piercing of the skin starts the
chemical and atomic reaction. The entire cartridge leaves the tube under
its own power, at a very easy initial velocity, just enough to insure
accuracy of aim; so the tube does not have to be of heavy construction.
The bullet increases in velocity as it goes. It may be solid or
explosive. It may explode on contact or on time, or a combination of
these two.

Bill and I talked mostly of weapons, military tactics and strategy.
Strangely enough he had no idea whatever of the possibilities of the
barrage, though the tremendous effect of a "curtain of fire" with such
high-explosive projectiles as these modern rocket guns used was obvious
to me. But the barrage idea, it seemed, has been lost track of
completely in the air wars that followed the First World War, and in the
peculiar guerilla tactics developed by Americans in the later period of
operations from the ground against Han airships, and in the gang wars
which, until a few generations ago I learned, had been almost
continuous.

"I wonder," said Bill one day, "if we couldn't work up some form of
barrage to spring on the Bad Bloods. The Big Boss told me today that
he's been in communication with the other gangs, and all are agreed that
the Bad Bloods might as well be wiped out for good. That attempt on
Wilma Deering's life and their evident desire to make trouble among the
gangs, has stirred up every community east of the Alleghenies. The Boss
says that none of the others will object if we go after them. So I
imagine that before long we will. Now show me again how you worked that
business in the Argonne forest. The conditions ought to be pretty much
the same."

I went over it with him in detail, and gradually we worked out a
modified plan that would be better adapted to our more powerful weapons,
and the use of jumpers.

"It will be easy," Bill exulted. "I'll slide down and talk it over with
the Boss tomorrow."

During the first two weeks of my stay with the Wyomings, Wilma Deering
and I saw a great deal of each other. I naturally felt a little closer
friendship for her, in view of the fact that she was the first human
being I saw after waking from my long sleep; her appreciation of my
saving her life, though I could not have done otherwise than I did in
that matter, and most of all my own appreciation of the fact that she
had not found it as difficult as the others to believe my story,
operated in the same direction. I could easily imagine my story must
have sounded incredible.

It was natural enough too, that she should feel an unusual interest in
me. In the first place, I was her personal discovery. In the second, she
was a girl of studious and reflective turn of mind. She never got tired
of my stories and descriptions of the 20th Century.

The others of the community, however, seemed to find our friendship a
bit amusing. It seemed that Wilma had a reputation for being cold toward
the opposite sex, and so others, not being able to appreciate some of
her fine qualities as I did, misinterpreted her attitude, much to their
own delight. Wilma and I, however, ignored this as much as we could.




CHAPTER IV

A Han Air Raid


There was a girl in Wilma's camp named Gerdi Mann, with whom Bill Hearn
was desperately in love, and the four of us used to go around a lot
together. Gerdi was a distinct type. Whereas Wilma had the usual dark
brown hair and hazel eyes that marked nearly every member of the
community, Gerdi had red hair, blue eyes and very fair skin. She has
been dead many years now, but I remember her vividly because she was a
throwback in physical appearance to a certain 20th Century type which I
have found very rare among modern Americans; also because the four of us
were engaged one day in a discussion of this very point, when I obtained
my first experience of a Han air raid.

We were sitting high on the side of a hill overlooking the valley that
teemed with human activity, invisible beneath its blanket of foliage.

The other three, who knew of the Irish but vaguely and indefinitely, as
a race on the other side of the globe, which, like ourselves, had
succeeded in maintaining a precarious and fugitive existence in
rebellion against the Mongolian domination of the earth, were listening
with interest to my theory that Gerdi's ancestors of several hundred
years ago must have been Irish. I explained that Gerdi was an Irish
type, evidently a throwback, and that her surname might well have been
McMann, or McMahan, and still more anciently "mac Mathghamhain." They
were interested too in my surmise that "Gerdi" was the same name as that
which had been "Gerty" or "Gertrude" in the 20th Century.

In the middle of our discussion, we were startled by an alarm rocket
that burst high in the air, far to the north, spreading a pall of red
smoke that drifted like a cloud. It was followed by others at scattered
points in the northern sky.

"A Han raid!" Bill exclaimed in amazement. "The first in seven years!"

"Maybe it's just one of their ships off its course," I ventured.

"No," said Wilma in some agitation. "That would be green rockets. Red
means only one thing, Tony. They're sweeping the countryside with their
dis beams. Can you see anything, Bill?"

"We had better get under cover," Gerdi said nervously. "The four of us
are bunched here in the open. For all we know they may be twelve miles
up, out of sight, yet looking at us with a projecto'."

Bill had been sweeping the horizon hastily with his glass, but
apparently saw nothing.

"We had better scatter, at that," he said finally. "It's orders, you
know. See!" He pointed to the valley.

Here and there a tiny human figure shot for a moment above the foliage
of the treetops.

"That's bad," Wilma commented, as she counted the jumpers. "No less than
fifteen people visible, and all clearly radiating from a central point.
Do they want to give away our location?"

The standard orders covering air raids were that the population was to
scatter individually. There should be no grouping, or even pairing, in
view of the destructiveness of the disintegrator rays. Experience of
generations had proved that if this were done, and everybody remained
hidden beneath the tree screens, the Hans would have to sweep mile after
mile of territory, foot by foot, to catch more than a small percentage
of the community.

Gerdi, however, refused to leave Bill, and Wilma developed an equal
obstinacy against quitting my side. I was inexperienced at this sort of
thing, she explained, quite ignoring the fact that she was too; she was
only thirteen or fourteen years old at the time of the last air raid.

However, since I could not argue her out of it, we leaped together about
a quarter of a mile to the right, while Bill and Gerdi disappeared down
the hillside among the trees.

Wilma and I both wanted a point of vantage from which we might overlook
the valley and the sky to the north, and we found it near the top of the
ridge, where, protected from visibility by thick branches, we could look
out between the tree trunks, and get a good view of the valley.

No more rockets went up. Except for a few of those warning red clouds,
drifting lazily in a blue sky, there was no visible indication of man's
past or present existence anywhere in the sky or on the ground.

Then Wilma gripped my arm and pointed. I saw it; away off in the
distance; looking like a phantom dirigible airship, in its coat of
low-visibility paint, a bare spectre.

"Seven thousand feet up," Wilma whispered, crouching close to me.
"Watch."

The ship was about the same shape as the great dirigibles of the 20th
Century that I had seen, but without the suspended control car, engines,
propellors, rudders or elevating planes. As it loomed rapidly nearer, I
saw that it was wider and somewhat flatter than I had supposed.

Now I could see the repellor rays that held the ship aloft, like
searchlight beams faintly visible in the bright daylight (and still
faintly visible to the human eye at night). Actually, I had been
informed by my instructors, there were two rays; the visible one
generated by the ship's apparatus, and directed toward the ground as a
beam of "carrier" impulses; and the true repellor ray, the complement of
the other in one sense, induced by the action of the "carrier" and
reacting in a concentrating upward direction from the mass of the earth,
becoming successively electronic, atomic and finally molecular, in its
nature, according to various ratios of distance between earth mass and
"carrier" source, until, in the last analysis, the ship itself actually
is supported on an upward rushing column of air, much like a ball
continuously supported on a fountain jet.

The raider neared with incredible speed. Its rays were both slanted
astern at a sharp angle, so that it slid forward with tremendous
momentum.

The ship was operating two disintegrator rays, though only in a casual,
intermittent fashion. But whenever they flashed downward with blinding
brilliancy, forest, rocks and ground melted instantaneously into
nothing, where they played upon them.

When later I inspected the scars left by these rays I found them some
five feet deep and thirty feet wide, the exposed surfaces being
lava-like in texture, but of a pale, iridescent, greenish hue.

No systematic use of the rays was made by the ship, however, until it
reached a point over the center of the valley--the center of the
community's activities. There it came to a sudden stop by shooting its
repellor beams sharply forward and easing them back gradually to the
vertical, holding the ship floating and motionless. Then the work of
destruction began systematically.

Back and forth traveled the destroying rays, ploughing parallel furrows
from hillside to hillside. We gasped in dismay, Wilma and I, as time
after time we saw it plough through sections where we knew camps or
plants were located.

"This is awful," she moaned, a terrified question in her eyes. "How
could they know the location so exactly, Tony? Did you see? They were
never in doubt. They stalled at a predetermined spot--and--and it was
exactly the right spot."

We did not talk of what might happen if the rays were turned in our
direction. We both knew. We would simply disintegrate in a split second
into mere scattered electronic vibrations. Strangely enough, it was this
self-reliant girl of the 25th Century, who clung to me, a relatively
primitive man of the 20th, less familiar than she with the thought of
this terrifying possibility, for moral support.

We knew that many of our companions must have been whisked into absolute
non-existence before our eyes in these few moments. The whole thing
paralyzed us into mental and physical immobility for I do not know how
long.

It couldn't have been long, however, for the rays had not ploughed more
than thirty of their twenty-foot furrows or so across the valley, when I
regained control of myself, and brought Wilma to herself by shaking her
roughly.

"How far will this rocket gun shoot, Wilma?" I demanded, drawing my
pistol.

"It depends on your rocket, Tony. It will take even the longest range
rocket, but you could shoot more accurately from a longer tube. But why?
You couldn't penetrate the shell of that ship with rocket force, even if
you could reach it."

I fumbled clumsily with my rocket pouch, for I was excited. I had an
idea I wanted to try; a "hunch" I called it, forgetting that Wilma could
not understand my ancient slang. But finally, with her help, I selected
the longest range explosive rocket in my pouch, and fitted it to my
pistol.

"It won't carry seven thousand feet, Tony," Wilma objected. But I took
aim carefully. It was another thought that I had in my mind. The
supporting repellor ray, I had been told, became molecular in character
at what was called a logarithmic level of five (below that it was a
purely electronic "flow" or pulsation between the source of the
"carrier" and the average mass of the earth). Below that level if I
could project my explosive bullet into this stream where it began to
carry material substance upward, might it not rise with the air column,
gathering speed and hitting the ship with enough impact to carry it
through the shell? It was worth trying anyhow. Wilma became greatly
excited, too, when she grasped the nature of my inspiration.

Feverishly I looked around for some formation of branches against which
I could rest the pistol, for I had to aim most carefully. At last I
found one. Patiently I sighted on the hulk of the ship far above us,
aiming at the far side of it, at such an angle as would, so far as I
could estimate, bring my bullet path through the forward repellor beam.
At last the sights wavered across the point I sought and I pressed the
button gently.

For a moment we gazed breathlessly.

Suddenly the ship swung bow down, as on a pivot, and swayed like a
pendulum. Wilma screamed in her excitement.

"Oh, Tony, you hit it! You hit it! Do it again; bring it down!"

We had only one more rocket of extreme range between us, and we dropped
it three times in our excitement in inserting it in my gun. Then,
forcing myself to be calm by sheer will power, while Wilma stuffed her
little fist into her mouth to keep from shrieking, I sighted carefully
again and fired. In a flash, Wilma had grasped the hope that this
discovery of mine might lead to the end of the Han domination.

The elapsed time of the rocket's invisible flight seemed an age.

Then we saw the ship falling. It seemed to plunge lazily, but actually
it fell with terrific acceleration, turning end over end, its
disintegrator rays, out of control, describing vast, wild arcs, and once
cutting a gash through the forest less than two hundred feet from where
we stood.

The crash with which the heavy craft hit the ground reverberated from
the hills--the momentum of eighteen or twenty thousand tons, in a sheer
drop of seven thousand feet. A mangled mass of metal, it buried itself
in the ground, with poetic justice, in the middle of the smoking,
semi-molten field of destruction it had been so deliberately ploughing.

The silence, the vacuity of the landscape, was oppressive, as the last
echoes died away.

Then far down the hillside, a single figure leaped exultantly above the
foliage screen. And in the distance another, and another.

In a moment the sky was punctured by signal rockets. One after another
the little red puffs became drifting clouds.

"Scatter! Scatter!" Wilma exclaimed. "In half an hour there'll be an
entire Han fleet here from Nu-yok, and another from Bah-flo. They'll get
this instantly on their recordographs and location finders. They'll
blast the whole valley and the country for miles beyond. Come, Tony.
There's no time for the gang to rally. See the signals. We've got to
jump. Oh, I'm so proud of you!"

Over the ridge we went, in long leaps toward the east, the country of
the Delawares.

From time to time signal rockets puffed in the sky. Most of them were
the "red warnings," the "scatter" signals. But from certain of the
others, which Wilma identified as Wyoming rockets, she gathered that
whoever was in command (we did not know whether the Boss was alive or
not) was ordering an ultimate rally toward the south, and so we changed
our course.

It was a great pity, I thought, that the clan had not been equipped
throughout its membership with ultrophones, but Wilma explained to me,
that not enough of these had been built for distribution as yet,
although general distribution had been contemplated within a couple of
months.

We traveled far before nightfall overtook us, trying only to put as much
distance as possible between ourselves and the valley.

When gathering dusk made jumping too dangerous, we sought a comfortable
spot beneath the trees, and consumed part of our emergency rations. It
was the first time I had tasted the stuff--a highly nutritive synthetic
substance called "concentro," which was, however, a bit bitter and
unpalatable. But as only a mouthful or so was needed, it did not matter.

Neither of us had a cloak, but we were both thoroughly tired and happy,
so we curled up together for warmth. I remember Wilma making some sleepy
remark about our mating, as she cuddled up, as though the matter were
all settled, and my surprise at my own instant acceptance of the idea,
for I had not consciously thought of her that way before. But we both
fell asleep at once.

In the morning we found little time for love making. The practical
problem facing us was too great. Wilma felt that the Wyoming plan must
be to rally in the Susquanna territory, but she had her doubts about the
wisdom of this plan. In my elation at my success in bringing down the
Han ship, and my newly found interest in my charming companion, who was,
from my viewpoint of another century, at once more highly civilized and
yet more primitive than myself, I had forgotten the ominous fact that
the Han ship I had destroyed must have known the exact location of the
Wyoming Works.

This meant, to Wilma's logical mind, either that the Hans had perfected
new instruments as yet unknown to us, or that somewhere, among the
Wyomings or some other nearby gang, there were traitors so degraded as
to commit that unthinkable act of trafficking in information with the
Hans. In either contingency, she argued, other Han raids would follow,
and since the Susquannas had a highly developed organization and more
than usually productive plants, the next raid might be expected to
strike them.

But at any rate it was clearly our business to get in touch with the
other fugitives as quickly as possible, so in spite of muscles that were
sore from the excessive leaping of the day before, we continued on our
way.

We traveled for only a couple of hours when we saw a multi-colored
rocket in the sky, some ten miles ahead of us.

"Bear to the left, Tony," Wilma said, "and listen for the whistle."

"Why?" I asked.

"Haven't they given you the rocket code yet?" she replied. "That's what
the green, followed by yellow and purple means; to concentrate five
miles east of the rocket position. You know the rocket position itself
might draw a play of disintegrator beams."

It did not take us long to reach the neighborhood of the indicated
rallying, though we were now traveling beneath the trees, with but an
occasional leap to a top branch to see if any more rocket smoke was
floating above. And soon we heard a distant whistle.

We found about half the Gang already there, in a spot where the trees
met high above a little stream. The Big Boss and Raid Bosses were busy
reorganizing the remnants.

We reported to Boss Hart at once. He was silent, but interested, when he
heard our story.

"You two stick close to me," he said, adding grimly, "I'm going back to
the valley at once with a hundred picked men, and I'll need you."




CHAPTER V

Setting the Trap


Inside of fifteen minutes we were on our way. A certain amount of
caution was sacrificed for the sake of speed, and the men leaped away
either across the forest top, or over open spaces of ground, but
concentration was forbidden. The Big Boss named the spot on the hillside
as the rallying point.

"We'll have to take a chance on being seen, so long as we don't group,"
he declared, "at least until within five miles of the rallying spot.
From then on I want every man to disappear from sight and to travel
under cover. And keep your ultrophones open, and tuned on
ten-four-seven-six."

Wilma and I had received our battle equipment from the Gear boss. It
consisted of a long-gun, a hand-gun, with a special case of ammunition
constructed of inertron, which made the load weigh but a few ounces, and
a short sword. This gear we strapped over each other's shoulders, on top
of our jumping belts. In addition, we each received an ultrophone, and a
light inertron blanket rolled into a cylinder about six inches long by
two or three in diameter. This fabric was exceedingly thin and light,
but it had considerable warmth, because of the mixture of inertron in
its composition.

[Illustration: The Han raider neared with incredible speed. Its rays
were both slanted astern at a sharp angle, so that it slid forward with
tremendous momentum.... Whenever the disintegrator rays flashed downward
with blinding brilliancy, forest, rocks and ground melted
instantaneously into nothing, where they played upon them.]

"This looks like business," Wilma remarked to me with sparkling eyes.
(And I might mention a curious thing here. The word "business" had
survived from the 20th Century American vocabulary, but not with any
meaning of "industry" or "trade," for such things being purely community
activities were spoken of as "work" and "clearing." Business simply
meant fighting, and that was all.)

"Did you bring all this equipment from the valley?" I asked the Gear
Boss.

"No," he said. "There was no time to gather anything. All this stuff we
cleared from the Susquannas a few hours ago. I was with the Boss on the
way down, and he had me jump on ahead and arrange it. But you two had
better be moving. He's beckoning you now."

Hart was about to call us on our phones when we looked up. As soon as we
did so, he leaped away, waving us to follow closely.

He was a powerful man, and he darted ahead in long, swift, low leaps up
the banks of the stream, which followed a fairly straight course at this
point. By extending ourselves, however, Wilma and I were able to catch
up to him.

As we gradually synchronized our leaps with his, he outlined to us,
between the grunts that accompanied each leap, his plan of action.

"We have to start the big business--unh--sooner or later," he said.
"And if--unh--the Hans have found any way of locating our
positions--unh--it's time to start now, although the Council of
Bosses--unh--had intended waiting a few years until enough rocket ships
have been--unh--built. But no matter what the sacrifice--unh--we can't
afford to let them get us on the run--unh--. We'll set a trap for the
yellow devils in the--unh--valley if they come back for their
wreckage--unh--and if they don't, we'll go rocketing for some of their
liners--unh--on the Nu-yok, Clee-lan, Si-ka-ga course. We can
use--unh--that idea of yours of shooting up the repellor--unh--beams.
Want you to give us a demonstration."

With further admonition to follow him closely, he increased his pace,
and Wilma and I were taxed to our utmost to keep up with him. It was
only in ascending the slopes that my tougher muscles overbalanced his
greater skill, and I was able to set the pace for him, as I had for
Wilma.

We slept in greater comfort that night, under our inertron blankets, and
were off with the dawn, leaping cautiously to the top of the ridge
overlooking the valley which Wilma and I had left.

The Boss scanned the sky with his ultroscope, patiently taking some
fifteen minutes to the task, and then swung his phone into use, calling
the roll and giving the men their instructions.

His first order was for us all to slip our ear and chest discs into
permanent position.

These ultrophones were quite different from the one used by Wilma's
companion scout the day I saved her from the vicious attack of the
bandit Gang. That one was contained entirely in a small pocket case.
These, with which we were now equipped, consisted of a pair of ear
discs, each a separate and self-contained receiving set. They slipped
into little pockets over our ears in the fabric helmets we wore, and
shut out virtually all extraneous sounds. The chest discs were likewise
self-contained sending sets, strapped to the chest a few inches below
the neck and actuated by the vibrations from the vocal cords through the
body tissues. The total range of these sets was about eighteen miles.
Reception was remarkably clear, quite free from the static that so
marked the 20th Century radios, and of a strength in direct proportion
to the distance of the speaker.

The Boss' set was triple powered, so that his orders would cut in on any
local conversations, which were indulged in, however, with great
restraint, and only for the purpose of maintaining contacts.

I marveled at the efficiency of this modern method of battle
communication in contrast to the clumsy signaling devices of more
ancient times; and also at other military contrasts in which the 20th
and 25th Century methods were the reverse of each other in efficiency.
These modern Americans, for instance, knew little of hand to hand
fighting, and nothing, naturally, of trench warfare. Of barrages they
were quite ignorant, although they possessed weapons of terrific power.
And until my recent flash of inspiration, no one among them, apparently,
had ever thought of the scheme of shooting a rocket into a repellor beam
and letting the beam itself hurl it upward into the most vital part of
the Han ship.

Hart patiently placed his men, first giving his instructions to the
campmasters, and then remaining silent, while they placed the
individuals.

In the end, the hundred men were ringed about the valley, on the
hillsides and tops, each in a position from which he had a good view of
the wreckage of the Han ship. But not a man had come in view, so far as
I could see, in the whole process.

The Boss explained to me that it was his idea that he, Wilma and I
should investigate the wreck. If Han ships should appear in the sky, we
would leap for the hillsides.

I suggested to him to have the men set up their long-guns trained on an
imaginary circle surrounding the wreck. He busied himself with this
after the three of us leaped down to the Han ship, serving as a target
himself, while he called on the men individually to aim their pieces and
lock them in position.

In the meantime Wilma and I climbed into the wreckage, but did not find
much. Practically all of the instruments and machinery had been twisted
out of all recognizable shape, or utterly destroyed by the ship's
disintegrator rays which apparently had continued to operate in the
midst of its warped remains for some moments after the crash.

It was unpleasant work searching the mangled bodies of the crew. But it
had to be done. The Han clothing, I observed, was quite different from
that of the Americans, and in many respects more like the garb to which
I had been accustomed in the earlier part of my life. It was made of
synthetic fabrics like silks, loose and comfortable trousers of knee
length, and sleeveless shirts.

No protection, except that against drafts, was needed, Wilma explained
to me, for the Han cities were entirely enclosed, with splendid
arrangements for ventilation and heating. These arrangements of course
were equally adequate in their airships. The Hans, indeed, had quite a
distaste for unshaded daylight, since their lighting apparatus diffused
a controlled amount of violet rays, making the unmodified sunlight
unnecessary for health, and undesirable for comfort. Since the Hans did
not have the secret of inertron, none of them wore anti-gravity belts.
Yet in spite of the fact that they had to bear their own full weights at
all times, they were physically far inferior to the Americans, for they
lived lives of degenerative physical inertia, having machinery of every
description for the performance of all labor, and convenient conveyances
for any movement of more than a few steps.

Even from the twisted wreckage of this ship I could see that seats,
chairs and couches played an extremely important part in their scheme of
existence.

But none of the bodies were overweight. They seemed to have been the
bodies of men in good health, but muscularly much underdeveloped. Wilma
explained to me that they had mastered the science of gland control, and
of course dietetics, to the point where men and women among them not
uncommonly reached the age of a hundred years with arteries and general
health in splendid condition.

I did not have time to study the ship and its contents as carefully as I
would have liked, however. Time pressed, and it was our business to
discover some clue to the deadly accuracy with which the ship had
spotted the Wyoming Works.

The Boss had hardly finished his arrangements for the ring barrage, when
one of the scouts on an eminence to the north, announced the approach of
seven Han ships, spread out in a great semi-circle.

Hart leaped for the hillside, calling to us to do likewise, but Wilma
and I had raised the flaps of our helmets and switched off our
"speakers" for conversation between ourselves, and by the time we
discovered what had happened, the ships were clearly visible, so fast
were they approaching.

"Jump!" we heard the Boss order, "Deering to the north. Rogers to the
east."

But Wilma looked at me meaningly and pointed to where the twisted plates
of the ship, projecting from the ground, offered a shelter.

"Too late, Boss," she said. "They'd see us. Besides I think there's
something here we ought to look at. It's probably their magnetic graph."

"You're signing your death warrant," Hart warned.

"We'll risk it," said Wilma and I together.

"Good for you," replied the Boss. "Take command then, Rogers, for the
present. Do you all know his voice, boys?"

A chorus of assent rang in our ears, and I began to do some fast
thinking as the girl and I ducked into the twisted mass of metal.

"Wilma, hunt for that record," I said, knowing that by the simple
process of talking I could keep the entire command continuously informed
as to the situation. "On the hillsides, keep your guns trained on the
circles and stand by. On the hilltops, how many of you are there? Speak
in rotation from Bald Knob around to the east, north, west."

In turn the men called their names. There were twenty of them.

I assigned them by name to cover the various Han ships, numbering the
latter from left to right.

"Train your rockets on their repellor rays about three-quarters of the
way up, between ships and ground. Aim is more important than elevation.
Follow those rays with your aim continuously. Shoot when I tell you, not
before. Deering has the record. The Hans probably have not seen us, or
at least think there are but two of us in the valley, since they're
settling without opening up disintegrators. Any opinions?"

My ear discs remained silent.

"Deering and I remain here until they land and debark. Stand by and keep
alert."

Rapidly and easily the largest of the Han ships settled to the earth.
Three scouted sharply to the south, rising to a higher level. The others
floated motionless about a thousand feet above.

Peeping through a small fissure between two plates, I saw the vast hulk
of the ship come to rest full on the line of our prospective ring
barrage. A door clanged open a couple of feet from the ground, and one
by one the crew emerged.




CHAPTER VI

The "Wyoming Massacre"


"They're coming out of the ship." I spoke quietly, with my hand over
my mouth, for fear they might hear me. "One--two--three--four,
five--six--seven--eight--nine. That seems to be all. Who knows how
many men a ship like that is likely to carry?"

"About ten, if there are no passengers," replied one of my men, probably
one of those on the hillside.

"How are they armed?" I asked.

"Just knives," came the reply. "They never permit hand-rays on the
ships. Afraid of accidents. Have a ruling against it."

"Leave them to us then," I said, for I had a hastily formed plan in my
mind. "You, on the hillsides, take the ships above. Abandon the ring
target. Divide up in training on those repellor rays. You, on the
hilltops, all train on the repellors of the ships to the south. Shoot at
the word, but not before.

"Wilma, crawl over to your left where you can make a straight leap for
the door in that ship. These men are all walking around the wreck in a
bunch. When they're on the far side, I'll give the word and you leap
through that door in one bound. I'll follow. Maybe we won't be seen.
We'll overpower the guard inside, but don't shoot. We may escape being
seen by both this crew and ships above. They can't see over this wreck."

It was so easy that it seemed too good to be true. The Hans who had
emerged from the ship walked round the wreckage lazily, talking in
guttural tones, keenly interested in the wreck, but quite unsuspicious.

At last they were on the far side. In a moment they would be picking
their way into the wreck.

"Wilma, leap!" I almost whispered the order.

The distance between Wilma's hiding place and the door in the side of
the Han ship was not more than fifteen feet. She was already crouched
with her feet braced against a metal beam. Taking the lift of that
wonderful inertron belt into her calculation, she dove headforemost,
like a green projectile, through the door. I followed in a split second,
more clumsily, but no less speedily, bruising my shoulder painfully, as
I ricocheted from the edge of the opening and brought up sliding against
the unconscious girl; for she evidently had hit her head against the
partition within the ship into which she had crashed.

We had made some noise within the ship. Shuffling footsteps were
approaching down a well lit gangway.

"Any signs we have been observed?" I asked my men on the hillsides.

"Not yet," I heard the Boss reply. "Ships overhead still standing. No
beams have been broken out. Men on ground absorbed in wreck. Most of
them have crawled into it out of sight."

"Good," I said quickly. "Deering hit her head. Knocked out. One or more
members of the crew approaching. We're not discovered yet. I'll take
care of them. Stand a bit longer, but be ready."

I think my last words must have been heard by the man who was
approaching, for he stopped suddenly.

I crouched at the far side of the compartment, motionless. I would not
draw my sword if there were only one of them. He would be a weakling, I
figured, and I should easily overcome him with my bare hands.

Apparently reassured at the absence of any further sound, a man came
around a sort of bulkhead--and I leaped.

I swung my legs up in front of me as I did so, catching him full in the
stomach and knocked him cold.

I ran forward along the keel gangway, searching for the control room. I
found it well up in the nose of the ship. And it was deserted. What
could I do to jam the controls of the ships that would not register on
the recording instruments of the other ships? I gazed at the mass of
controls. Levers and wheels galore. In the center of the compartment, on
a massively braced universal joint mounting, was what I took for the
repellor generator. A dial on it glowed and a faint hum came from within
its shielding metallic case. But I had no time to study it.

Above all else, I was afraid that some automatic telephone apparatus
existed in the room, through which I might be heard on the other ships.
The risk of trying to jam the controls was too great. I abandoned the
idea and withdrew softly. I would have to take a chance that there was
no other member of the crew aboard.

I ran back to the entrance compartment. Wilma still lay where she had
slumped down. I heard the voices of the Hans approaching. It was time to
act. The next few seconds would tell whether the ships in the air would
try or be able to melt us into nothingness. I spoke.

"Are you boys all ready?" I asked, creeping to a position opposite the
door and drawing my hand-gun.

Again there was a chorus of assent.

"Then on the count of three, shoot up those repellor rays--all of
them--and for God's sake, don't miss." And I counted.

I think my "three" was a bit weak. I know it took all the courage I had
to utter it.

For an agonizing instant nothing happened, except that the landing party
from the ship strolled into my range of vision.

Then startled, they turned their eyes upward. For an instant they stood
frozen with horror at whatever they saw.

One hurled his knife at me. It grazed my cheek. Then a couple of them
made a break for the doorway. The rest followed. But I fired pointblank
with my hand-gun, pressing the button as fast as I could and aiming at
their feet to make sure my explosive rockets would make contact and do
their work.

The detonations of my rockets were deafening. The spot on which the Hans
stood flashed into a blinding glare. Then there was nothing there except
their torn and mutilated corpses. They had been fairly bunched, and I
got them all.

I ran to the door, expecting any instant to be hurled into infinity by
the sweep of a disintegrator ray.

Some eighth of a mile away I saw one of the ships crash to earth. A
disintegrator ray came into my line of vision, wavered uncertainly for a
moment and then began to sweep directly toward the ship in which I
stood. But it never reached it. Suddenly, like a light switched off, it
shot to one side, and a moment later another vast hulk crashed to earth.
I looked out, then stepped out on the ground.

The only Han ships in the sky were two of the scouts to the south which
were hanging perpendicularly, and sagging slowly down. The others must
have crashed down while I was deafened by the sound of the explosion of
my own rockets.

Somebody hit the other repellor ray of one of the two remaining ships
and it fell out of sight beyond a hilltop. The other, farther away,
drifted down diagonally, its disintegrator ray playing viciously over
the ground below it.

I shouted with exultation and relief.

"Take back the command, Boss!" I yelled.

His commands, sending out jumpers in pursuit of the descending ship,
rang in my ears, but I paid no attention to them. I leaped back into the
compartment of the Han ship and knelt beside my Wilma. Her padded helmet
had absorbed much of the blow, I thought; otherwise, her skull might
have been fractured.

"Oh, my head!" she groaned, coming to as I lifted her gently in my arms
and strode out in the open with her. "We must have won, dearest, did
we?"

"We most certainly did," I reassured her. "All but one crashed and that
one is drifting down toward the south; we've captured this one we're in
intact. There was only one member of the crew aboard when we dove in."

[Illustration: As the American leaped, he swung his legs up in front of
him, catching the Han full in the stomach.]

Less than an hour afterward the Big Boss ordered the outfit to tune in
ultrophones on three-twenty-three to pick up a translated broadcast of
the Han intelligence office in Nu-yok from the Susquanna station. It
was in the form of a public warning and news item, and read as follows:

"This is Public Intelligence Office, Nu-yok, broadcasting warning to
navigators of private ships, and news of public interest. The squadron
of seven ships, which left Nu-yok this morning to investigate the recent
destruction of the GK-984 in the Wyoming Valley, has been destroyed by a
series of mysterious explosions similar to those which wrecked the
GK-984.

"The phones, viewplates, and all other signaling devices of five of the
seven ships ceased operating suddenly at approximately the same moment,
about seven-four-nine." (According to the Han system of reckoning time,
seven and forty-nine one hundredths after midnight.) "After violent
disturbances the location finders went out of operation. Electroactivity
registers applied to the territory of the Wyoming Valley remain dead.

"The Intelligence Office has no indication of the kind of disaster which
overtook the squadron except certain evidences of explosive phenomena
similar to those in the case of the GK-984, which recently went dead
while beaming the valley in a systematic effort to wipe out the works
and camps of the tribesmen. The Office considers, as obvious, the
deduction that the tribesmen have developed a new, and as yet
undetermined, technique of attack on airships, and has recommended to
the Heaven-Born that immediate and unlimited authority be given the
Navigation Intelligence Division to make an investigation of this
technique and develop a defense against it.

"In the meantime it urges that private navigators avoid this territory
in particular, and in general hold as closely as possible to the
official inter-city routes, which now are being patrolled by the entire
force of the Military Office, which is beaming the routes generously to
a width of ten miles. The Military Office reports that it is at present
considering no retaliatory raids against the tribesmen. With the
Navigation Intelligence Division, it holds that unless further evidence
of the nature of the disaster is developed in the near future, the
public interest will be better served, and at smaller cost of life, by a
scientific research than by attempts at retaliation, which may bring
destruction on all ships engaging therein. So unless further evidence
actually is developed, or the Heaven-Born orders to the contrary, the
Military will hold to a defensive policy.

"Unofficial intimations from Lo-Tan are to the effect that the
Heaven-Council has the matter under consideration.

"The Navigation Intelligence Office permits the broadcast of the
following condensation of its detailed observations:

"The squadron proceeded to a position above the Wyoming Valley where
the wreck of the GK-984 was known to be, from the record of its location
finder before it went dead recently. There the bottom projectoscope
relays of all ships registered the wreck of the GK-984. Teleprojectoscope
views of the wreck and the bowl of the valley showed no evidence of the
presence of tribesmen. Neither ship registers nor base registers showed
any indication of electroactivity except from the squadron itself. On
orders from the Base Squadron Commander, the LD-248, LK-745 and LG-25
scouted southward at 3,000 feet. The GK-43, GK-981 and GK-220 stood
above at 2,500 feet, and the GK-18 landed to permit personal inspection
of the wreck by the science committee. The party debarked, leaving one
man on board in the control cabin. He set all projectoscopes at
universal focus except RB-3," (this meant the third projectoscope from
the bow of the ship, on the right-hand side of the lower deck) "with
which he followed the landing group as it walked around the wreck.

"The first abnormal phenomenon recorded by any of the instruments at
Base was that relayed automatically from projectoscope RB-4 of the
GK-18, which as the party disappeared from view in back of the wreck,
recorded two green missiles of roughly cylindrical shape, projected from
the wreckage into the landing compartment of the ship. At such close
range these were not clearly defined, owing to the universal focus at
which the projectoscope was set. The Base Captain of GK-18 at once
ordered the man in the control room to investigate, and saw him leave
the control room in compliance with this order. An instant later
confused sounds reached the control-room electrophone, such as might be
made by a man falling heavily, and footsteps reapproached the control
room, a figure entering and leaving the control room hurriedly. The Base
Captain now believes, and the stills of the photorecord support his
belief, that this was not the crew member who had been left in the
control room. Before the Base Captain could speak to him he left the
room, nor was any response given to the attention signal the Captain
flashed throughout the ship.

"At this point projectoscope RB-3 of the ship now out of focus control,
dimly showed the landing party walking back toward the ship. RB-4 showed
it more clearly. Then on both these instruments, a number of blinding
explosives in rapid succession were seen and the electrophone relays
registered terrific concussions; the ship's electronic apparatus and
projectoscopes apparatus went dead.

"Reports of the other ships' Base Observers and Executives, backed by
the photorecords, show the explosions as taking place in the midst of
the landing party as it returned, evidently unsuspicious, to the ship.
Then in rapid succession they indicate that terrific explosions occurred
inside and outside the three ships standing above close to their rep-ray
generators, and all signals from these ships thereupon went dead.

"Of the three ships scouting to the south, the LD-248 suffered an
identical fate, at the same moment. Its records add little to the
knowledge of the disaster. But with the LK-745 and the LG-25 it was
different.

"The relay instruments of the LK-745 indicated the destruction by an
explosion of the rear rep-ray generator, and that the ship hung stern
down for a short space, swinging like a pendulum. The forward viewplates
and indicators did not cease functioning, but their records are chaotic,
except for one projectoscope still, which shows the bowl of the valley,
and the GK-981 falling, but no visible evidence of tribesmen. The
control-room viewplate is also a chaotic record of the ship's crew
tumbling and falling to the rear wall. Then the forward rep-ray
generator exploded, and all signals went dead.

"The fate of the LG-25 was somewhat similar, except that this ship hung
nose down, and drifted on the wind southward as it slowly descended out
of control.

"As its control room was shattered, verbal report from its Action
Captain was precluded. The record of the interior rear viewplate shows
members of the crew climbing toward the rear rep-ray generator in an
attempt to establish manual control of it, and increase the lift. The
projectoscope relays, swinging in wide arcs, recorded little of value
except at the ends of their swings. One of these, from a machine which
happened to be set in telescopic focus, shows several views of great
value in picturing the falls of the other ships, and all of the rear
projectoscope records enable the reconstruction in detail of the
pendulum and torsional movements of the ship, and its sag toward the
earth. But none of the views showing the forest below contain any
indication of tribesmen's presence. A final explosion put this ship out
of commission at a height of 1,000 feet, and at a point four miles S. by
E. of the center of the valley."

The message ended with a repetition of the warning to other airmen to
avoid the valley.




CHAPTER VII

Incredible Treason


After receiving this report, and reassurances of support from the Big
Bosses of the neighboring Gangs, Hart determined to reestablish the
Wyoming Valley community.

A careful survey of the territory showed that it was only the northern
sections and slopes that had been "beamed" by the first Han ship.

The synthetic-fabrics plant had been partially wiped out, though the
lower levels underground had not been reached by the dis ray. The forest
screen above it, however, had been annihilated, and it was determined to
abandon it, after removing all usable machinery and evidences of the
processes that might be of interest to the Han scientists, should they
return to the valley in the future.

The ammunition plant, and the rocket-ship plant, which had just been
about to start operation at the time of the raid, were intact, as were
the other important plants.

Hart brought the Camboss up from the Susquanna Works, and laid out new
camp locations, scattering them farther to the south, and avoiding
ground which had been seared by the Han beams and the immediate
locations of the Han wrecks.

During this period, a sharp check was kept upon Han messages, for the
phone plant had been one of the first to be put in operation, and when
it became evident that the Hans did not intend any immediate reprisals,
the entire membership of the community was summoned back, and normal
life was resumed.

Wilma and I had been married the day after the destruction of the ships,
and spent this intervening period in a delightful honeymoon, camping
high in the mountains. On our return, we had a camp of our own, of
course. We were assigned to location 1017. And as might be expected, we
had a great deal of banter over which one of us was Camp Boss. The title
stood after my name on the Big Boss' records, and those of the Big
Camboss, of course, but Wilma airily held that this meant nothing at
all--and generally succeeded in making me admit it whenever she chose.

I found myself a full-fledged member of the Gang now, for I had elected
to search no farther for a permanent alliance, much as I would have
liked to familiarize myself with this 25th Century life in other
sections of the country. The Wyomings had a high morale, and had
prospered under the rule of Big Boss Hart for many years. But many of
the gangs, I found, were badly organized, lacked strong hands in
authority, and were rife with intrigue. On the whole, I thought I would
be wise to stay with a group which had already proved its friendliness,
and in which I seemed to have prospects of advancement. Under these
modern social and economic conditions, the kind of individual freedom to
which I had been accustomed in the 20th Century was impossible. I would
have been as much of a nonentity in every phase of human relationship by
attempting to avoid alliances, as any man of the 20th Century would have
been politically, who aligned himself with no political party.

This entire modern life, it appeared to me, judging from my ancient
viewpoint, was organized along what I called "political" lines. And in
this connection, it amused me to notice how universal had become the use
of the word "boss." The leader, the person in charge or authority over
anything, was a "boss." There was as little formality in his relations
with his followers as there was in the case of the 20th Century
political boss, and the same high respect paid him by his followers as
well as the same high consideration by him of their interests. He was
just as much of an autocrat, and just as much dependent upon the general
popularity of his actions for the ability to maintain his autocracy.

The sub-boss who could not command the loyalty of his followers was as
quickly deposed, either by them or by his superiors, as the ancient ward
leader of the 20th Century who lost control of his votes.

As society was organized in the 20th Century, I do not believe the
system could have worked in anything but politics. I tremble to think
what would have happened, had the attempt been made to handle the A. E.
F. this way during the First World War, instead of by that rigid
military discipline and complete assumption of the individual as a mere
standardized cog in the machine.

But owing to the centuries of desperate suffering the people had endured
at the hands of the Hans, there developed a spirit of self-sacrifice and
consideration for the common good that made the scheme applicable and
efficient in all forms of human co-operation.

I have a little heresy about all this, however. My associates regard the
thought with as much horror as many worthy people of the 20th Century
felt in regard to any heretical suggestion that the original outline of
government as laid down in the First Constitution did not apply as well
to 20th Century conditions as to those of the early 19th.

In later years, I felt that there was a certain softening of moral fiber
among the people, since the Hans had been finally destroyed with all
their works; and Americans have developed a new luxury economy. I have
seen signs of the reawakening of greed, of selfishness. The eternal
cycle seems to be at work. I fear that slowly, though surely, private
wealth is reappearing, codes of inflexibility are developing; they will
be followed by corruption, degradation; and in the end some cataclysmic
event will end this era and usher in a new one.

All this, however, is wandering afar from my story, which concerns our
early battles against the Hans, and not our more modern problems of
self-control.

Our victory over the seven Han ships had set the country ablaze. The
secret had been carefully communicated to the other gangs, and the
country was agog from one end to the other. There was feverish activity
in the ammunition plants, and the hunting of stray Han ships became an
enthusiastic sport. The results were disastrous to our hereditary
enemies.

From the Pacific Coast came the report of a great transpacific liner of
75,000 tons "lift" being brought to earth from a position of
invisibility above the clouds. A dozen Sacramentos had caught the hazy
outlines of its rep rays approaching them, head-on, in the twilight,
like ghostly pillars reaching into the sky. They had fired rockets into
it with ease, whereas they would have had difficulty in hitting it if it
had been moving at right angles to their position. They got one rep ray.
The other was not strong enough to hold it up. It floated to earth, nose
down, and since it was unarmed and unarmored, they had no difficulty in
shooting it to pieces and massacring its crew and passengers. It seemed
barbarous to me. But then I did not have centuries of bitter persecution
in my blood.

From the Jersey Beaches we received news of the destruction of a
Nu-yok-A-lan-a liner. The Sand-snipers, practically invisible in their
sand-colored clothing, and half buried along the beaches, lay in wait
for days, risking the play of dis beams along the route, and finally
registering four hits within a week. The Hans discontinued their service
along this route, and as evidence that they were badly shaken by our
success, sent no raiders down the Beaches.

It was a few weeks later that Big Boss Hart sent for me.

"Tony," he said, "There are two things I want to talk to you about. One
of them will become public property in a few days, I think. We aren't
going to get any more Han ships by shooting up their repellor rays
unless we use much larger rockets. They are wise to us now. They're
putting armor of great thickness in the hulls of their ships below the
rep-ray machines. Near Bah-flo this morning a party of Eries shot one
without success. The explosions staggered her, but did not penetrate. As
near as we can gather from their reports, their laboratories have
developed a new alloy of great tensile strength and elasticity which
nevertheless lets the rep rays through like a sieve. Our reports
indicate that the Eries' rockets bounced off harmlessly. Most of the
party was wiped out as the dis rays went into action on them.

"This is going to mean real business for all of the gangs before long.
The Big Bosses have just held a national ultrophone council. It was
decided that America must organize on a national basis. The first move
is to develop sectional organization by Zones. I have been made
Superboss of the Mid-Atlantic Zone.

"We're in for it now. The Hans are sure to launch reprisal expeditions.
If we're to save the race we must keep them away from our camps and
plants. I'm thinking of developing a permanent field force, along the
lines of the regular armies of the 20th Century you told me about. Its
business will be twofold: to carry the warfare as much as possible to
the Hans, and to serve as a decoy, to keep their attention from our
plants. I'm going to need your help in this.

"The other thing I wanted to talk to you about is this: Amazing and
impossible as it seems, there is a group, or perhaps an entire gang,
somewhere among us, that is betraying us to the Hans. It may be the Bad
Bloods, or it may be one of those gangs who live near one of the Han
cities. You know, a hundred and fifteen or twenty years ago there were
certain of these people's ancestors who actually degraded themselves by
mating with the Hans, sometimes even serving them as slaves, in the days
before they brought all their service machinery to perfection.

"There is such a gang, called the Nagras, up near Bah-flo, and another
in Mid-Jersey that men call the Pineys. But I hardly suspect the Pineys.
There is little intelligence among them. They wouldn't have the
information to give the Hans, nor would they be capable of imparting it.
They're absolute savages."

"Just what evidence is there that anybody has been clearing information
to the Hans?" I asked.

"Well," he replied, "first of all there was that raid upon us. That
first Han ship knew the location of our plants exactly. You remember it
floated directly into position above the valley and began a systematic
beaming. Then, the Hans quite obviously have learned that we are picking
up their electrophone waves, for they've gone back to their old, but
extremely accurate, system of directional control. But we've been
getting them for the past week by installing automatic re-broadcast
units along the scar paths. This is what the Americans called those
strips of country directly under the regular ship routes of the Hans,
who as a matter of precaution frequently blasted them with their dis
beams to prevent the growth of foliage which might give shelter to the
Americans. But they've been beaming those paths so hard, it looks as
though they even had information of this strategy. And in addition,
they've been using code. Finally, we've picked up three of their
messages in which they discuss, with some nervousness, the existence of
our 'mysterious' ultrophone."

"But they still have no knowledge of the nature and control of ultronic
activity?" I asked.

"No," said the Big Boss thoughtfully, "they don't seem to have a bit of
information about it."

"Then it's quite clear," I ventured, "that whoever is 'clearing' us to
them is doing it piecemeal. It sounds like a bit of occasional barter,
rather than an out-and-out alliance. They're holding back as much
information as possible for future bartering, perhaps."

"Yes," Hart said, "and it isn't information the Hans are giving in
return, but some form of goods, or privilege. The trick would be to
locate the goods. I guess I'll have to make a personal trip around among
the Big Bosses."




CHAPTER VIII

The Han City


This conversation set me thinking. All of the Han electrophone
inter-communication had been an open record to the Americans for a good
many years, and the Hans were just finding it out. For centuries they
had not regarded us as any sort of a menace. Unquestionably it had never
occurred to them to secrete their own records. Somewhere in Nu-yok or
Bah-flo, or possibly in Lo-Tan itself, the record of this traitorous
transaction would be more or less openly filed. If we could only get at
it! I wondered if a raid might not be possible.

Bill Hearn and I talked it over with our Han-affairs Boss and his
experts. There ensued several days of research, in which the Han records
of the entire decade were scanned and analyzed. In the end they picked
out a mass of detail, and fitted it together into a very definite
picture of the great central filing office of the Hans in Nu-yok, where
the entire mass of official records was kept, constantly available for
instant projectoscoping to any of the city's offices, and of the system
by which the information was filed.

The attempt began to look feasible, though Hart instantly turned the
idea down when I first presented it to him. It was unthinkable, he said.
Sheer suicide. But in the end I persuaded him.

"I will need," I said, "Blash, who is thoroughly familiar with the Han
library system; Bert Gaunt, who for years has specialized on their
military offices; Bill Barker, the ray specialist, and the best swooper
pilot we have." _Swoopers_ are one-man and two-man ships, developed by
the Americans, with skeleton backbones of inertron (during the war
painted green for invisibility against the green forests below) and
"bellies" of clear ultron.

"That will be Mort Gibbons," said Hart. "We've only got three swoopers
left, Tony, but I'll risk one of them if you and the others will
voluntarily risk your existences. But mind, I won't urge or order one of
you to go. I'll spread the word to every Plant Boss at once to give you
anything and everything you need in the way of equipment."

When I told Wilma of the plan, I expected her to raise violent and
tearful objections, but she didn't. She was made of far sterner stuff
than the women of the 20th Century. Not that she couldn't weep as
copiously or be just as whimsical on occasion; but she wouldn't weep for
the same reasons.

She just gave me an unfathomable look, in which there seemed to be a bit
of pride, and asked eagerly for the details. I confess I was somewhat
disappointed that she could so courageously risk my loss, even though I
was amazed at her fortitude. But later I was to learn how little I knew
her then.

We were ready to slide off at dawn the next morning. I had kissed Wilma
good-bye at our camp, and after a final conference over our plans, we
boarded our craft and gently glided away over the tree tops on a course,
which, after crossing three routes of the Han ships, would take us out
over the Atlantic, off the Jersey coast, whence we would come up on
Nu-yok from the ocean.

Twice we had to nose down and lie motionless on the ground near a route
while Han ships passed. Those were tense moments. Had the green back of
our ship been observed, we would have been disintegrated in a second.
But it wasn't.

Once over the water, however, we climbed in a great spiral, ten miles in
diameter, until our altimeter registered ten miles. Here Gibbons shut
off his rocket motor, and we floated, far above the level of the
Atlantic liners, whose course was well to the north of us anyhow, and
waited for nightfall.

Then Gibbons turned from his control long enough to grin at me.

"I have a surprise for you, Tony," he said, throwing back the lid of
what I had supposed was a big supply case. And with a sigh of relief,
Wilma stepped out of the case.

"If you 'go into zero' (a common expression of the day for being
annihilated by the disintegrator ray), you don't think I'm going to let
you go alone, do you, Tony? I couldn't believe my ears last night when
you spoke of going without me, until I realized that you are still five
hundred years behind the times in lots of ways. Don't you know, dear
heart, that you offered me the greatest insult a husband could give a
wife? You didn't, of course."

The others, it seemed, had all been in on the secret, and now they would
have kidded me unmercifully, except that Wilma's eyes blazed
dangerously.

At nightfall, we maneuvered to a position directly above the city. This
took some time and calculation on the part of Bill Barker, who explained
to me that he had to determine our point by ultronic bearings. The
slightest resort to an electronic instrument, he feared, might be
detected by our enemies' locators. In fact, we did not dare bring our
swooper any lower than five miles for fear that its capacity might be
reflected in their instruments.

Finally, however, he succeeded in locating above the central tower of
the city.

"If my calculations are as much as ten feet off," he remarked with
confidence, "I'll eat the tower. Now the rest is up to you, Mort. See
what you can do to hold her steady. No--here, watch this indicator--the
red beam, not the green one. See--if you keep it exactly centered on the
needle, you're O.K. The width of the beam represents seventeen feet. The
tower platform is fifty feet square, so we've got a good margin to work
on."

For several moments we watched as Gibbons bent over his levers,
constantly adjusting them with deft touches of his fingers. After a bit
of wavering, the beam remained centered on the needle.

"Now," I said, "let's drop."

I opened the trap and looked down, but quickly shut it again when I felt
the air rushing out of the ship into the rarefied atmosphere in a
torrent. Gibbons literally yelled a protest from his instrument board.

"I forgot," I mumbled. "Silly of me. Of course, we'll have to drop out
of compartment."

The compartment, to which I referred, was similar to those in some of
the 20th Century submarines. We all entered it. There was barely room
for us to stand, shoulder to shoulder. With some struggles, we got into
our special air helmets and adjusted the pressure. At our signal,
Gibbons exhausted the air in the compartment, pumping it into the body
of the ship, and as the little signal light flashed, Wilma threw open
the hatch.

Setting the ultron-wire reel, I climbed through, and began to slide down
gently.

We all had our belts on, of course, adjusted to a weight balance of but
a few ounces. And the five-mile reel of ultron wire that was to be our
guide, was of gossamer fineness, though, anyway, I believe it would have
lifted the full weight of the five of us, so strong and tough was this
invisible metal. As an extra precaution, since the wire was of the
purest metal, and therefore totally invisible, even in daylight, we all
had our belts hooked on small rings that slid down the wire.

I went down with the end of the wire. Wilma followed a few feet above
me, then Barker, Gaunt and Blash. Gibbons, of course, stayed behind to
hold the ship in position and control the paying out of the line. We all
had our ultrophones in place inside our air helmets, and so could
converse with one another and with Gibbons. But at Wilma's suggestion,
although we would have liked to let the Big Boss listen in, we kept them
adjusted to short-range work, for fear that those who had been clearing
with the Hans, and against whom we were on a raid for evidence, might
also pick up our conversation. We had no fear that the Hans would hear
us. In fact, we had the added advantage that, even after we landed, we
could converse freely without danger of their hearing our voices through
our air helmets.

For a while I could see nothing below but utter darkness. Then I
realized, from the feel of the air as much as from anything, that we
were sinking through a cloud layer. We passed through two more cloud
layers before anything was visible to us.

Then there came under my gaze, about two miles below, one of the most
beautiful sights I have ever seen; the soft, yet brilliant, radiance of
the great Han city of Nu-yok. Every foot of its structural members
seemed to glow with a wonderful incandescence, tower piled up on tower,
and all built on the vast base-mass of the city, which, so I had been
told, sheered upward from the surface of the rivers to a height of 728
levels.

The city, I noticed with some surprise, did not cover anything like the
same area as the New York of the 20th Century. It occupied, as a matter
of fact, only the lower half of Manhattan Island, with one section
straddling the East River, and spreading out sufficiently over what once
had been Brooklyn, to provide berths for the great liners and other air
craft.

Straight beneath my feet was a tiny dark patch. It seemed the only spot
in the entire city that was not aflame with radiance. This was the
central tower, in the top floors of which were housed the vast library
of record files and the main projectoscope plant.

"You can shoot the wire now," I ultrophoned Gibbons, and let go the
little weighted knob. It dropped like a plummet, and we followed with
considerable speed, but braking our descent with gloved hands
sufficiently to see whether the knob, on which a faint light glowed as a
signal for ourselves, might be observed by any Han guard or night
prowler. Apparently it was not, and we again shot down with accelerated
speed.

We landed on the roof of the tower without any mishap, and fortunately
for our plan, in darkness. Since there was nothing above it on which it
would have been worth while to shed illumination, or from which there
was any need to observe it, the Hans had neglected to light the tower
roof, or indeed to occupy it at all. This was the reason we had selected
it as our landing place.

As soon as Gibbons had our word, he extinguished the knob light, and the
knob, as well as the wire, became totally invisible. At our ultrophoned
word, he would light it again.

"No gun play now," I warned. "Swords only, and then only if absolutely
necessary."

Closely bunched, and treading as lightly as only inertron-belted people
could, we made our way cautiously through a door and down an inclined
plane to the floor below, where Gaunt and Blash assured us the military
offices were located.

Twice Barker cautioned us to stop as we were about to pass in front of
mirror-like "windows" in the passage wall, and flattening ourselves to
the floor, we crawled past them.

"Projectoscopes," he said. "Probably on automatic record only, at this
time of night. Still, we don't want to leave any records for them to
study after we're gone."

"Were you ever here before?" I asked.

"No," he replied, "but I haven't been studying their electrophone
communications for seven years without being able to recognize these
machines when I run across them."




CHAPTER IX

The Fight in the Tower


So far we had not laid eyes on a Han. The tower seemed deserted. Blash
and Gaunt, however, assured me that there would be at least one man on
"duty" in the military offices, though he would probably be asleep, and
two or three in the library proper and the projectoscope plant.

"We've got to put them out of commission," I said. "Did you bring the
'dope' cans, Wilma?"

"Yes," she said, "two for each. Here," and she distributed them.

We were now two levels below the roof, and at the point where we were to
separate.

I did not want to let Wilma out of my sight, but it was necessary.

According to our plan, Barker was to make his way to the projectoscope
plant, Blash and I to the library, and Wilma and Gaunt to the military
office.

Blash and I traversed a long corridor, and paused at the great arched
doorway of the library. Cautiously we peered in. Seated at three great
switchboards were library operatives. Occasionally one of them would
reach lazily for a lever, or sleepily push a button, as little numbered
lights winked on and off. They were answering calls for electrograph and
viewplate records on all sorts of subjects from all sections of the
city.

I apprised my companions of the situation.

"Better wait a bit," Blash added. "The calls will lessen shortly."

Wilma reported an officer in the military office sound asleep.

"Give him the can, then," I said.

Barker was to do nothing more than keep watch in the projectoscope
plant, and a few moments later he reported himself well concealed, with
a splendid view of the floor.

"I think we can take a chance now," Blash said to me, and at my nod, he
opened the lid of his dope can. Of course, the fumes did not affect us,
through our helmets. They were absolutely without odor or visibility,
and in a few seconds the librarians were unconscious. We stepped into
the room.

There ensued considerable cautious observation and experiment on the
part of Gaunt, working from the military office, and Blash in the
library; while Wilma and I, with drawn swords and sharply attuned
microphones, stood guard, and occasionally patrolled nearby corridors.

"I hear something approaching," Wilma said after a bit, with excitement
in her voice. "It's a soft, gliding sound."

"That's an elevator somewhere," Barker cut in from the projectoscope
floor. "Can you locate it? I can't hear it."

"It's to the east of me," she replied.

"And to my west," said I, faintly catching it. "It's between us, Wilma,
and nearer you than me. Be careful. Have you got any information yet,
Blash and Gaunt?"

"Getting it now," one of them replied. "Give us two minutes more."

"Keep at it then," I said. "We'll guard."

The soft, gliding sound ceased.

"I think it's very close to me," Wilma almost whispered. "Come closer,
Tony. I have a feeling something is going to happen. I've never known my
nerves to get taut like this without reason."

In some alarm, I launched myself down the corridor in a great leap
toward the intersection whence I knew I could see her.

In the middle of my leap my ultrophone registered her gasp of alarm. The
next instant I glided to a stop at the intersection to see Wilma backing
toward the door of the military office, her sword red with blood, and an
inert form on the corridor floor. Two other Hans were circling to either
side of her with wicked-looking knives, while a third evidently a high
officer, judging by the resplendence of his garb tugged desperately to
get an electrophone instrument out of a bulky pocket. If he ever gave
the alarm, there was no telling what might happen to us.

I was at least seventy feet away, but I crouched low and sprang with
every bit of strength in my legs. It would be more correct to say that I
dived, for I reached the fellow head on, with no attempt to draw my legs
beneath me.

Some instinct must have warned him, for he turned suddenly as I hurtled
close to him. But by this time I had sunk close to the floor, and had
stiffened myself rigidly, lest a dragging knee or foot might just
prevent my reaching him. I brought my blade upward and over. It was a
vicious slash that laid him open, bisecting him from groin to chin, and
his dead body toppled down on me, as I slid to a tangled stop.

The other two startled, turned. Wilma leaped at one and struck him down
with a side slash. I looked up at this instant, and the dazed fear on
his face at the length of her leap registered vividly. The Hans knew
nothing of our inertron belts, it seemed, and these leaps and dives of
ours filled them with terror.

As I rose to my feet, a gory mess, Wilma, with a poise and speed which I
found time to admire even in this crisis, again leaped. This time she
dove head first as I had done and, with a beautifully executed thrust,
ran the last Han through the throat.

Uncertainly, she scrambled to her feet, staggered queerly, and then sank
gently prone on the corridor. She had fainted.

At this juncture, Blash and Gaunt reported with elation that they had
the record we wanted.

"Back to the roof, everybody!" I ordered, as I picked Wilma up in my
arms. With her inertron belt, she felt as light as a feather.

Gaunt joined me at once from the military office, and at the
intersection of the corridor, we came upon Blash waiting for us. Barker,
however, was not in evidence.

"Where are you, Barker?" I called.

"Go ahead," he replied. "I'll be with you on the roof at once."

We came out in the open without any further mishap, and I instructed
Gibbons in the ship to light the knob on the end of the ultron wire. It
flashed dully a few feet away from us. Just how he had maneuvered the
ship to keep our end of the line in position, without its swinging in a
tremendous arc, I have never been able to understand. Had not the night
been an unusually still one, he could not have checked the initial
pendulum-like movements. As it was, there was considerable air current
at certain of the levels, and in different directions too. But Gibbons
was an expert of rare ability and sensitivity in the handling of a
rocket ship, and he managed, with the aid of his delicate instruments,
to sense the drifts almost before they affected the fine ultron wire,
and to neutralize them with little shifts in the position of the ship.

Blash and Gaunt fastened their rings to the wire, and I hooked my own
and Wilma's on, too. But on looking around, I found Barker was still
missing.

"Barker, come!" I called. "We're waiting."

"Coming!" he replied, and indeed, at that instant, his figure appeared
up the ramp. He chuckled as he fastened his ring to the wire, and said
something about a little surprise he had left for the Hans.

"Don't reel in the wire more than a few hundred feet," I instructed
Gibbons. "It will take too long to wind it in. We'll float up, and when
we're aboard, we can drop it."

In order to float up, we had to dispense with a pound or two of weight
apiece. We hurled our swords from us, and kicked off our shoes as
Gibbons reeled up the line a bit, and then letting go of the wire, began
to hum upward on our rings with increasing velocity.

The rush of air brought Wilma to, and I hastily explained to her that we
had been successful. Receding far below us now, I could see our dully
shining knob swinging to and fro in an ever widening arc, as it crossed
and recrossed the black square of the tower roof. As an extra
precaution, I ordered Gibbons to shut off the light, and to show one
from the belly of the ship, for so great was our speed now, that I began
to fear we would have difficulty in checking ourselves. We were
literally falling upward, and with terrific acceleration.

Fortunately, we had several minutes in which to solve this difficulty,
which none of us, strangely enough, had foreseen. It was Gibbons who
found the answer.

"You'll be all right if all of you grab the wire tight when I give the
word," he said. "First I'll start reeling it in at full speed. You won't
get much of a jar, and then I'll decrease its speed again gradually, and
its weight will hold you back. Are you ready? One--two--three!"

We all grabbed tightly with our gloved hands as he gave the word. We
must have been rising a good bit faster than he figured, however, for it
wrenched our arms considerably, and the maneuver set up a sickening
pendulum motion.

For a while all we could do was swing there in an arc that may have been
a quarter of a mile across, about three and a half miles above the city,
and still more than a mile from our ship.

Gibbons skilfully took up the slack as our momentum pulled up the line.
Then at last we had ourselves under control again, and continued our
upward journey, checking our speed somewhat with our gloves.

There was not one of us who did not breathe a big sigh of relief when we
scrambled through the hatch safely into the ship again, cast off the
ultron line and slammed the trap shut.

Little realizing that we had a still more terrible experience to go
through, we discussed the information Blash and Gaunt had between them
extracted from the Han records, and the advisability of ultrophoning
Hart at once.




CHAPTER X

The Walls of Hell


The traitors were, it seemed, a degenerate gang of Americans, located a
few miles north of Nu-yok on the wooded banks of the Hudson, the
Sinsings. They had exchanged scraps of information to the Hans in return
for several old repellor-ray machines, and the privilege of tuning in on
the Han electronic power broadcast for their operation, provided their
ships agreed to subject themselves to the orders of the Han traffic
office, while aloft.

The rest wanted to ultrophone their news at once, since there was always
danger that we might never get back to the gang with it.

I objected, however. The Sinsings would be likely to pick up our
message. Even if we used the directional projector, they might have
scouts out to the west and south in the big inter-gang stretches of
country. They would flee to Nu-yok and escape the punishment they
merited. It seemed to be vitally important that they should not, for the
sake of example to other weak groups among the American gangs, as well
as to prevent a crisis in which they might clear more vital information
to the enemy.

"Out to sea again," I ordered Gibbons. "They'll be less likely to look
for us in that direction."

"Easy, Boss, easy," he replied. "Wait until we get up a mile or two
more. They must have discovered evidences of our raid by now, and their
dis-ray wall may go in operation any moment."

Even as he spoke, the ship lurched downward and to one side.

"There it is!" he shouted. "Hang on, everybody. We're going to nose
straight up!" And he flipped the rocket-motor control wide open.

Looking through one of the rear ports, I could see a nebulous, luminous
ring, and on all sides the atmosphere took on a faint iridescence.

We were almost over the destructive range of the disintegrator-ray wall,
a hollow cylinder of annihilation shooting upward from a solid ring of
generators surrounding the city. It was the main defense system of the
Hans, which had never been used except in periodic tests. They may or
may not have suspected that an American rocket ship was within the
cylinder; probably they had turned on their generators more as a
precaution to prevent any reaching a position above the city.

But even at our present great height, we were in great danger. It was a
question how much we might have been harmed by the rays themselves, for
their effective range was not much more than seven or eight miles. The
greater danger lay in the terrific downward rush of air within the
cylinder to replace that which was being burned into nothingness by the
continual play of the disintegrators. The air fell into the cylinder
with the force of a gale. It would be rushing toward the wall from the
outside with terrific force also, but, naturally, the effect was
intensified on the interior.

Our ship vibrated and trembled. We had only one chance of escape--to
fight our way well above the current. To drift down with it meant
ultimately, and inevitably, to be sucked into the destruction wall at
some lower level.

But very gradually and jerkily our upward movement, as shown on the
indicators, began to increase, and after an hour of desperate struggle
we were free of the maelstrom and into the rarefied upper levels. The
terror beneath us was now invisible through several layers of cloud
formations.

Gibbons brought the ship back to an even keel, and drove her eastward
into one of the most brilliantly gorgeous sunrises I have ever seen.

We described a great circle to the south and west, in a long easy dive,
for he had cut out his rocket motors to save them as much as possible.
We had drawn terrifically on their fuel reserves in our battle with the
elements. For the moment, the atmosphere below cleared, and we could see
the Jersey coast far beneath, like a great map.

"We're not through yet," remarked Gibbons suddenly, pointing at his
periscope, and adjusting it to telescopic focus. "A Han ship, and a
'drop ship' at that--and he's seen us. If he whips that beam of his on
us, we're done."

I gazed, fascinated, at the viewplate. What I saw was a cigar-shaped
ship not dissimilar to our own in design, and from the proportional size
of its ports, of about the same size as our swoopers. We learned later
that they carried crews, for the most part of not more than three or
four men. They had streamline hulls and tails that embodied
universal-jointed double fish-tail rudders. In operation they rose to
great heights on their powerful repellor rays, then gathered speed
either by a straight nose dive, or an inclined dive in which they
sometimes used the repellor ray slanted at a sharp angle. He was already
above us, though several miles to the north. He could, of course, try to
get on our tail and "spear" us with his beam as he dropped at us from a
great height.

Suddenly his beam blazed forth in a blinding flash, whipping downward
slowly to our right. He went through a peculiar corkscrew-like
evolution, evidently maneuvering to bring his beam to bear on us with a
spiral motion.

Gibbons instantly sent our ship into a series of evolutions that must
have looked like those of a frightened hen. Alternately, he used the
forward and the reverse rocket blasts, and in varying degree. We
fluttered, we shot suddenly to right and left, and dropped like a
plummet in uncertain movements. But all the time the Han scout dropped
toward us, determinedly whipping the air around us with his beam. Once
it sliced across beneath us, not more than a hundred feet, and we
dropped with a jar into the pocket formed by the destruction of the air.

He had dropped to within a mile of us, and was coming with the speed of
a projectile, when the end came. Gibbons always swore it was sheer luck.
Maybe it was, but I like pilots who are lucky that way.

In the midst of a dizzy, fluttering maneuver of our own, with the Han
ship enlarging to our gaze with terrifying rapidity, and its beam slowly
slicing toward us in what looked like certain destruction within the
second, I saw Gibbons' fingers flick at the lever of his rocket gun and
a split second later the Han ship flew apart like a clay pigeon.

We staggered, and fluttered crazily for several moments while Gibbons
struggled to bring our ship into balance, and a section of about four
square feet in the side of the ship near the stern slowly crumbled like
rusted metal. His beam actually had touched us, but our explosive rocket
had got him a thousandth of a second sooner.

Part of our rudder had been annihilated, and our motor damaged. But we
were able to swoop gently back across Jersey, fortunately crossing the
ship lanes without sighting any more Han craft, and finally settling to
rest in the little glade beneath the trees, near Hart's camp.




CHAPTER XI

The New Boss


We had ultrophoned our arrival and the Big Boss himself, surrounded by
the Council, was on hand to welcome us and learn our news. In turn we
were informed that during the night a band of raiding Bad Bloods,
disguised under the insignia of the Altoonas, a gang some distance to
the west of us, had destroyed several of our camps before our people had
rallied and driven them off. Their purpose, evidently, had been to
embroil us with the Altoonas, but fortunately, one of our exchanges
recognized the Bad Blood leader, who had been slain.

The Big Boss had mobilized the full raiding force of the Gang, and was
on the point of heading an expedition for the extermination of the Bad
Bloods.

I looked around the grim circle of the sub-bosses, and realized the fate
of America, at this moment, lay in their hands. Their temper demanded
the immediate expenditure of our full effort in revenging ourselves for
this raid. But the strategic exigencies, to my mind, quite clearly
demanded the instant and absolute extermination of the Sinsings. It
might be only a matter of hours, for all we knew, before these degraded
people would barter clues to the American ultronic secrets to the Hans.

"How large a force have we?" I asked Hart.

"Every man and maid who can be spared," he replied. "That gives us seven
hundred married and unmarried men, and three hundred girls, more than
the entire Bad Blood Gang. Every one is equipped with belts,
ultrophones, rocket guns and swords, and all fighting mad."

I meditated how I might put the matter to these determined men, and was
vaguely conscious that they were awaiting my words.

Finally I began to speak. I do not remember to this day just what I
said. I talked calmly, with due regard for their passion, but with deep
conviction. I went over the information we had collected, point by
point, building my case logically, and painting a lurid picture of the
danger impending in that half-alliance between the Sinsings and the Hans
of Nu-yok. I became impassioned, culminating, I believe, with a vow to
proceed single-handed against the hereditary enemies of our race, "if
the Wyomings were blindly set on placing a gang feud ahead of honor and
duty and the hopes of all America."

As I concluded, a great calm came over me, as of one detached. I had
felt much the same way during several crises in the First World War. I
gazed from face to face, striving to read their expressions, and in a
mood to make good my threat without any further heroics, if the decision
was against me.

But it was Hart who sensed the temper of the Council more quickly than I
did, and looked beyond it into the future.

He arose from the tree trunk on which he had been sitting.

"That settles it," he said, looking around the ring. "I have felt this
thing coming on for some time now. I'm sure the Council agrees with me
that there is among us a man more capable than I, to boss the Wyoming
Gang, despite his handicap of having had all too short a time in which
to familiarize himself with our modern ways and facilities. Whatever I
can do to support his effective leadership, at any cost, I pledge myself
to do."

As he concluded, he advanced to where I stood, and taking from his head
the green-crested helmet that constituted his badge of office, to my
surprise he placed it in my mechanically extended hand.

The roar of approval that went up from the Council members left me
dazed. Somebody ultrophoned the news to the rest of the Gang, and even
though the earflaps of my helmet were turned up, I could hear the cheers
with which my invisible followers greeted me, from near and distant
hillsides, camps and plants.

My first move was to make sure that the Phone Boss, in communicating
this news to the members of the Gang, had not re-broadcast my talk nor
mentioned my plan of shifting the attack from the Bad Bloods to the
Sinsings. I was relieved by his assurance that he had not, for it would
have wrecked the whole plan. Everything depended upon our ability to
surprise the Sinsings.

So I pledged the Council and my companions to secrecy, and allowed it to
be believed that we were about to take to the air and the trees against
the Bad Bloods.

That outfit must have been badly scared, the way they were "burning" the
ether with ultrophone alibis and propaganda for the benefit of the more
distant gangs. It was their old game, and the only method by which they
had avoided extermination long ago from their immediate neighbors--these
appeals to the spirit of American brotherhood, addressed to gangs too
far away to have had the sort of experience with them that had fallen to
our lot.

I chuckled. Here was another good reason for the shift in my plans. Were
we actually to undertake the exterminations of the Bad Bloods at once,
it would have been a hard job to convince some of the gangs that we had
not been precipitate and unjustified. Jealousies and prejudices existed.
There were gangs which would give the benefit of the doubt to the Bad
Bloods, rather than to ourselves, and the issue was now hopelessly
beclouded with the clever lies that were being broadcast in an unceasing
stream.

But the extermination of the Sinsings would be another thing. In the
first place, there would be no warning of our action until it was all
over, I hoped. In the second place, we would have indisputable proof, in
the form of their rep-ray ships and other paraphernalia, of their
traffic with the Hans; and the state of American prejudice, at the time
of which I write held trafficking with the Hans a far more heinous thing
than even a vicious gang feud.

I called an executive session of the Council at once. I wanted to
inventory our military resources.

I created a new office on the spot, that of "Control Boss," and
appointed Ned Garlin to the post, turning over his former responsibility
as Plants Boss to his assistant. I needed someone, I felt, to tie in the
records of the various functional activities of the campaign, and take
over from me the task of keeping the records of them up to the minute.

I received reports from the bosses of the ultrophone unit, and those of
food, transportation, fighting gear, chemistry, electronic activity and
electrophone intelligence, ultroscopes, air patrol and contact guard.

My ideas for the campaign, of course, were somewhat tinged with my 20th
Century experience, and I found myself faced with the task of working
out a staff organization that was a composite of the best and most
easily applied principles of business and military efficiency, as I knew
them from the viewpoint of immediate practicality.

What I wanted was an organization that would be specialized,
functionally, not as that indicated above, but from the angles of:
intelligence as to the Sinsings' activities; intelligence as to Han
activities; perfection of communication with my own units; co-operation
of field command; and perfect mobilization of emergency supplies and
resources.

It took several hours of hard work with the Council to map out the plan.
First we assigned functional experts and equipment to each "Division" in
accordance with its needs. Then these in turn were reassigned by the new
Division Bosses to the Field Commands as needed, or as Independent or
Headquarters Units. The two intelligence divisions were named the White
and the Yellow, indicating that one specialized on the American enemy
and the other on the Mongolians.

The division in charge of our own communications, the assignment of
ultrophone frequencies and strengths, and the maintenance of operators
and equipment, I called "Communications."

I named Bill Hearn to the post of Field Boss, in charge of the main or
undetached fighting units, and to the Resources Division, I assigned all
responsibility for what few aircraft we had; and all transportation and
supply problems, I assigned to "Resources." The functional bosses stayed
with this division.

We finally completed our organization with the assignment of liaison
representatives among the various divisions as needed.

Thus I had a "Headquarters Staff" composed of the Division Bosses who
reported directly to Ned Garlin as Control Boss, or to Wilma as my
personal assistant. And each of the Division Bosses had a small staff of
his own.

In the final summing up of our personnel and resources, I found we had
roughly a thousand "troops," of whom some three hundred and fifty were,
in what I called the Service Divisions, the rest being in Bill Hearn's
Field Division. This latter number, however, was cut down somewhat by
the assignment of numerous small units to detached service. Altogether,
the actual available fighting force, I figured, would number about five
hundred, by the time we actually went into action.

We had only six small swoopers, but I had an ingenious plan in my mind,
as the result of our little raid on Nu-yok, that would make this
sufficient, since the reserves of inertron blocks were larger than I
expected to find them. The Resources Division, by packing its supply
cases a bit tight, or by slipping in extra blocks of inertron, was able
to reduce each to a weight of a few ounces. These easily could be
floated and towed by the swoopers in any quantity. Hitched to ultron
lines, it would be a virtual impossibility for them to break loose.

The entire personnel, of course, was supplied with jumpers, and if each
man and girl was careful to adjust balances properly, the entire number
could also be towed along through the air, grasping wires of ultron,
swinging below the swoopers, or stringing out behind them.

There would be nothing tiring about this, because the strain would be no
greater than that of carrying a one or two pound weight in the hand,
except for air friction at high speeds. But to make doubly sure that we
should lose none of our personnel, I gave strict orders that the belts
and tow lines should be equipped with rings and hooks.

So great was the efficiency of the fundamental organization and
discipline of the Gang, that we got under way at nightfall.

One by one the swoopers eased into the air, each followed by its long
train or "kite-tail" of humanity and supply cases hanging lightly from
its tow line. For convenience, the tow lines were made of an alloy of
ultron which, unlike the metal itself, is visible.

At first these "tails" hung downward, but as the ships swung into
formation and headed eastward toward the Bad Blood territory, gathering
speed, they began to string out behind. And swinging low from each ship
on heavily weighted lines, ultroscope, ultrophone, and straight-vision
observers keenly scanned the countryside, while intelligence men in the
swoopers above bent over their instrument boards and viewplates.

Leaving Control Boss Ned Garlin temporarily in charge of affairs, Wilma
and I dropped a weighted line from our ship, and slid down about half
way to the under lookouts, that is to say, about a thousand feet. The
sensation of floating swiftly through the air like this, in the absolute
security of one's confidence in the inertron belt, was one of
never-ending delight to me.

We reascended into the swooper as the expedition approached the
territory of the Bad Bloods, and directed the preparations for the
bombardment. It was part of my plan to appear to carry out the attack as
originally planned.

About fifteen miles from their camps our ships came to a halt and
maintained their positions for a while with the idling blasts of their
rocket motors, to give the ultroscope operators a chance to make a
thorough examination of the territory below us, for it was very
important that this next step in our program should be carried out with
all secrecy.

At length they reported the ground below us entirely clear of any
appearance of human occupation, and a gun unit of long-range specialists
was lowered with a dozen rocket guns, equipped with special automatic
devices that the Resources Division had developed at my request, a few
hours before our departure. These were aiming and timing devices. After
calculating the range, elevation and rocket charges carefully, the guns
were left, concealed in a ravine, and the men were hauled up into the
ship again. At the predetermined hour, those unmanned rocket guns would
begin automatically to bombard the Bad Bloods' hillsides, shifting their
aim and elevation slightly with each shot, as did many of our artillery
pieces in the First World War.

In the meantime, we turned south about twenty miles, and grounded,
waiting for the bombardment to begin before we attempted to sneak across
the Han ship lane. I was relying for security on the distraction that
the bombardment might furnish the Han observers.

It was tense work waiting, but the affair went through as planned, our
squadron drifting across the route high enough to enable the ships'
tails of troops and supply cases to clear the ground.

In crossing the second ship route, out along the Beaches of Jersey, we
were not so successful in escaping observation. A Han ship came speeding
along at a very low elevation. We caught it on our electronic location
and direction finders, and also located it with our ultroscopes, but it
came so fast and so low that I thought it best to remain where we had
grounded the second time, and lie quiet, rather than get under way and
cross in front of it.

The point was this. While the Hans had no such devices as our
ultroscopes, with which we could see in the dark (within certain
limitations of course), and their electronic instruments would be
virtually useless in uncovering our presence, since all but natural
electronic activities were carefully eliminated from our apparatus,
except electrophone receivers (which are not easily spotted), the Hans
did have some very highly sensitive sound devices which operated with
great efficiency in calm weather, so far as sounds emanating from the
air were concerned. But the "ground roar" greatly confused their use of
these instruments in the location of specific sounds floating up from
the surface of the earth.

This ship must have caught some slight noise of ours, however, in its
sensitive instruments, for we heard its electronic devices go into play,
and picked up the routine report of the noise to its Base Ship
Commander. But from the nature of the conversation, I judged they had
not identified it, and were, in fact, more curious about the detonations
they were picking up now from the Bad Blood lands some sixty miles or so
to the west.

Immediately after this ship had shot by, we took the air again, and
following much the same route that I had taken the previous night,
climbed in a long semi-circle out over the ocean, swung toward the north
and finally the west. We set our course, however, for the Sinsings' land
north of Nu-yok, instead of for the city itself.




CHAPTER XII

The Finger of Doom


As we crossed the Hudson River, a few miles north of the city, we
dropped several units of the Yellow Intelligence Division, with full
instrumental equipment. Their apparatus cases were nicely balanced at
only a few ounces weight each, and the men used their chute capes to
ease their drops.

We recrossed the river a little distance above and began dropping White
Intelligence units and a few long and short range gun units. Then we
held our position until we began to get reports. Gradually we ringed the
territory of the Sinsings, our observation units working busily and
patiently at their locators and scopes, both aloft and aground, until
Garlin finally turned to me with the remark:

"The map circle is complete now, Boss. We've got clear locations all the
way around them."

"Let me see it," I replied, and studied the illuminated viewplate map,
with its little overlapping circles of light that indicated spots proved
clear of the enemy by ultroscopic observation.

I nodded to Bill Hearn. "Go ahead now, Hearn," I said, "and place your
barrage men."

He spoke into his ultrophone, and three of the ships began to glide in a
wide ring around the enemy territory. Every few seconds, at the word
from his Unit Boss, a gunner would drop off the wire, and slipping the
clasp of his chute cape, drift down into the darkness below.

Bill formed two lines, parallel to and facing the river, and enclosing
the entire territory of the enemy between them. Above and below,
straddling the river, were two defensive lines. These latter were merely
to hold their positions. The others were to close in toward each other,
pushing a high-explosive barrage five miles ahead of them. When the two
barrages met, both lines were to switch to short-vision-range barrage
and continue to close in on any of the enemy who might have drifted
through the previous curtain of fire.

In the meantime Bill kept his reserves, a picked corps of a hundred men
(the same that had accompanied Hart and myself in our fight with the Han
squadron) in the air, divided about equally among the "kite-tails" of
four ships.

A final roll call, by units, companies, divisions and functions,
established the fact that all our forces were in position. No Han
activity was reported, and no Han broadcasts indicated any suspicion of
our expedition. Nor was there any indication that the Sinsings had any
knowledge of the fate in store for them. The idling of rep-ray
generators was reported from the center of their camp, obviously those
of the ships the Hans had given them--the price of their treason to
their race.

Again I gave the word, and Hearn passed on the order to his
subordinates.

Far below us, and several miles to the right and left, the two barrage
lines made their appearance. From the great height to which we had
risen, they appeared like lines of brilliant, winking lights, and the
detonations were muffled by the distances into a sort of rumbling,
distant thunder. Hearn and his assistants were very busy: measuring,
calculating, and snapping out ultrophone orders to unit commanders that
resulted in the straightening of lines and the closing of gaps in the
barrage.

The White Division Boss reported the utmost confusion in the Sinsing
organization. They were, as might be expected, an inefficient, loosely
disciplined gang, and repeated broadcasts for help to neighboring gangs.
Ignoring the fact that the Mongolians had not used explosives for many
generations, they nevertheless jumped at the conclusion that they were
being raided by the Hans. Their frantic broadcasts persisted in this
thought, despite the nervous electrophonic inquiries of the Hans
themselves, to whom the sound of the battle was evidently audible, and
who were trying to locate the trouble.

At this point, the swooper I had sent south toward the city went into
action as a diversion, to keep the Hans at home. Its "kite-tail" loaded
with long-range gunners, using the most highly explosive rockets we had,
hung invisible in the darkness of the sky and bombarded the city from a
distance of about five miles. With an entire city to shoot at, and the
object of creating as much commotion therein as possible, regardless of
actual damage, the gunners had no difficulty in hitting the mark. I
could see the glow of the city and the stabbing flashes of exploding
rockets. In the end, the Hans, uncertain as to what was going on, fell
back on a defensive policy, and shot their "hell cylinder," or wall of
upturned disintegrator rays into operation. That, of course, ended our
bombardment of them. The rays were a perfect defense, disintegrating our
rockets as they were reached.

If they had not sent out ships before turning on the rays, and if they
had none within sufficient radius already in the air, all would be well.

I queried Garlin on this, but he assured me Yellow Intelligence reported
no indications of Han ships nearer than 800 miles. This would probably
give us a free hand for a while, since most of their instruments
recorded only imperfectly or not at all, through the death wall.

Requisitioning one of the viewplates of the headquarters ship, and the
services of an expert operator, I instructed him to focus on our lines
below. I wanted a close-up of the men in action.

He began to manipulate his controls and chaotic shadows moved rapidly
across the plate, fading in and out of focus, until he reached an
adjustment that gave me a picture of the forest floor, apparently 100
feet wide, with the intervening branches and foliage of the trees
appearing like shadows that melted into reality a few feet above the
ground.

I watched one man setting up his long-gun with skillful speed. His lips
pursed slightly as though he were whistling, as he adjusted the tall
tripod on which the long tube was balanced. Swiftly he twirled the knobs
controlling the aim and elevation of his piece. Then, lifting a belt of
ammunition from the big box, which itself looked heavy enough to break
down the spindly tripod, he inserted the end of it in the lock of his
tube and touched the proper combination of buttons.

Then he stepped aside, and occupied himself with peering carefully
through the trees ahead. Not even a tremor shook the tube, but I knew
that at intervals of something less than a second, it was discharging
small projectiles which, traveling under their own continuously reduced
power, were arching into the air, to fall precisely five miles ahead and
explode with the force of eight-inch shells, such as we used in the
First World War.

Another gunner, fifty feet to the right of him, waved a hand and called
out something to him. Then, picking up his own tube and tripod, he
gauged the distance between the trees ahead of him, and the height of
their lowest branches, and bending forward a bit, flexed his muscles and
leaped lightly, some twenty-five feet. Another leap took him another
twenty feet or so, where he began to set up his piece.

I ordered my observer then to switch to the barrage itself. He got a
close focus on it, but this showed little except a continuous series of
blinding flashes, which, from the viewplate, lit up the entire interior
of the ship. An eight-hundred-foot focus proved better. I had thought
that some of our French and American artillery of the 20th Century had
achieved the ultimate in mathematical precision of fire, but I had never
seen anything to equal the accuracy of that line of terrific explosions
as it moved steadily forward, mowing down trees as a scythe cuts grass
(or used to 500 years ago), literally churning up the earth and the
splintered, blasted remains of the forest giants, to a depth of from ten
to twenty feet.

By now the two curtains of fire were nearing each other, lines of
vibrant, shimmering, continuous, brilliant destruction, inevitably
squeezing the panic-stricken Sinsings between them.

Even as I watched, a group of them, who had been making a futile effort
to get their three rep-ray machines into the air, abandoned their
efforts, and rushed forth into the milling mob.

I queried the Control Boss sharply on the futility of this attempt of
theirs, and learned that the Hans, apparently in doubt as to what was
going on, had continued to "play safe," and broken off their power
broadcast, after ordering all their own ships east of the Alleghenies to
the ground, for fear these ships they had traded to the Sinsings might
be used against them.

Again I turned to my viewplate, which was still focussed on the central
section of the Sinsing works. The confusion of the traitors was entirely
that of fear, for our barrage had not yet reached them.

Some of them set up their long-guns and fired at random over the barrage
line, then gave it up. They realized that they had no target to shoot
at, no way of knowing whether our gunners were a few hundred feet or
several miles beyond it.

Their ultrophone men, of whom they did not have many, stood around in
tense attitudes, their helmet phones strapped around their ears,
nervously fingering the tuning controls at their belts. Unquestionably
they must have located some of our frequencies, and overheard many of
our reports and orders. But they were confused and disorganized. If they
had an Ultrophone Boss they evidently were not reporting to him in an
organized way.

They were beginning to draw back now before our advancing fire. With
intermittent desperation, they began to shoot over our barrage again,
and the explosions of their rockets flashed at widely scattered points
beyond. A few took distance "pot shots."

Oddly enough it was our own forces that suffered the first casualties in
the battle. Some of these distance shots by chance registered hits,
while our men were under strict orders not to exceed their barrage
distances.

Seen upon the ultroscope viewplate, the battle looked as though it were
being fought in daylight, perhaps on a cloudy day, while the explosions
of the rockets appeared as flashes of extra brilliance.

The two barrage lines were not more than five hundred feet apart when
the Sinsings resorted to tactics we had not foreseen. We noticed first
that they began to lighten themselves by throwing away extra equipment.
A few of them in their excitement threw away too much, and shot suddenly
into the air. Then a scattering few floated up gently, followed by
increasing numbers, while still others, preserving a weight balance,
jumped toward the closing barrages and leaped high, hoping to clear
them. Some succeeded. We saw others blown about like leaves in a
windstorm, to crumple and drift slowly down, or else to fall into the
barrage, their belts blown from their bodies.

However, it was not part of our plan to allow a single one of them to
escape and find his way to the Hans. I quickly passed the word to Bill
Hearn to have the alternate men in his line raise their barrages and
heard him bark out a mathematical formula to the Unit Bosses.

We backed off our ships as the explosions climbed into the air in
stagger formation until they reached a height of three miles. I don't
believe any of the Sinsings who tried to float away to freedom
succeeded.

But we did know later, that a few who leaped the barrage got away and
ultimately reached Nu-yok.

It was those who managed to jump the barrage who gave us the most
trouble. With half of our long-guns turned aloft, I foresaw we would not
have enough to establish successive ground barrages and so ordered the
barrage back two miles, from which positions our "curtains" began to
close in again, this time, however, gauged to explode, not on contact,
but thirty feet in the air. This left little chance for the Sinsings to
leap either over or under it.

Gradually, the two barrages approached each other until they finally
met, and in the grey dawn the battle ended.

Our own casualties amounted to forty-seven men in the ground forces,
eighteen of whom had been slain in hand to hand fighting with the few of
the enemy who managed to reach our lines, and sixty-two in the crew and
"kite-tail" force of swooper No. 4, which had been located by one of
the enemy's ultroscopes and brought down with long-gun fire.

Since nearly every member of the Sinsing Gang had, so far as we knew,
been killed, we considered the raid a great success.

It had, however, a far greater significance than this. To all of us who
took part in the expedition, the effectiveness of our barrage tactics
definitely established a confidence in our ability to overcome the Hans.

As I pointed out to Wilma:

"It has been my belief all along, dear, that the American explosive
rocket is a far more efficient weapon than the disintegrator ray of the
Hans, once we can train all our gangs to use it systematically and in
co-ordinated fashion. As a weapon in the hands of a single individual,
shooting at a mark in direct line of vision, the rocket-gun is inferior
in destructive power to the dis ray, except as its range may be a little
greater. The trouble is that to date it has been used only as we used
our rifles and shot guns in the 20th Century. The possibilities of its
use as artillery, in laying barrages that advance along the ground, or
climb into the air, are tremendous.

"The dis ray inevitably reveals its source of emanation. The rocket gun
does not. The dis ray can reach its target only in a straight line. The
rocket may be made to travel in an arc, over intervening obstacles, to
an unseen target.

"Nor must we forget that our ultronists now are promising us a perfect
shield against the dis ray in inertron."

"I tremble though, Tony dear, when I think of the horrors that are ahead
of us. The Hans are clever. They will develop defenses against our new
tactics. And they are sure to mass against us not only the full force of
their power in America, but the united forces of the World Empire. They
are a cowardly race in one sense, but clever as the very Devils in Hell,
and inheritors of a calm, ruthless, vicious persistency."

"Nevertheless," I prophesied, "the Finger of Doom points squarely at
them today, and unless you and I are killed in the struggle, we shall
live to see America blast the Yellow Blight from the face of the Earth."


Project Gutenberg's Tom Swift and his Submarine Boat, by Victor Appleton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Tom Swift and his Submarine Boat
       or, Under the Ocean for Sunken Treasure

Author: Victor Appleton

Posting Date: July 13, 2008 [EBook #949]
Release Date: June, 1997
[Last updated on June 6, 2013]

Language: English




Produced by Anthony Matonac








TOM SWIFT AND HIS SUBMARINE BOAT

or

Under the Ocean for Sunken Treasure


by

VICTOR APPLETON








TOM SWIFT AND HIS SUBMARINE BOAT




Chapter One

News of a Treasure Wreck


There was a rushing, whizzing, throbbing noise in the air.  A great
body, like that of some immense bird, sailed along, casting a grotesque
shadow on the ground below.  An elderly man, who was seated on the
porch of a large house, started to his feet in alarm.

"Gracious goodness! What was that, Mrs. Baggert?" he called to a
motherly-looking woman who stood in the doorway.  "What happened?"

"Nothing much, Mr. Swift," was the calm reply "I think that was Tom and
Mr. Sharp in their airship, that's all. I didn't see it, but the noise
sounded like that of the Red Cloud."

"Of course! To be sure!" exclaimed Mr. Barton Swift, the well-known
inventor, as he started down the path in order to get a good view of
the air, unobstructed by the trees. "Yes, there they are," he added.
"That's the airship, but I didn't expect them back so soon. They must
have made good time from Shopton. I wonder if anything can be the
matter that they hurried so?"

He gazed aloft toward where a queerly-shaped machine was circling about
nearly five hundred feet in the air, for the craft, after swooping down
close to the house, had ascended and was now hovering just above the
line of breakers that marked the New Jersey seacoast, where Mr. Swift
had taken up a temporary residence.

"Don't begin worrying, Mr. Swift," advised Mrs. Baggert, the
housekeeper. "You've got too much to do, if you get that new boat done,
to worry."

"That's so. I must not worry. But I wish Tom and Mr. Sharp would land,
for I want to talk to them."

As if the occupants of the airship had heard the words of the aged
inventor, they headed their craft toward earth. The combined aeroplane
and dirigible balloon, a most wonderful traveler of the air, swung
around, and then, with the deflection rudders slanted downward, came on
with a rush.  When near the landing place, just at the side of the
house, the motor was stopped, and the gas, with a hissing noise, rushed
into the red aluminum container. This immediately made the ship more
buoyant and it landed almost as gently as a feather.

No sooner had the wheels which formed the lower part of the craft
touched the ground than there leaped from the cabin of the Red Cloud a
young man.

"Well, dad!" he exclaimed. "Here we are again, safe and sound. Made a
record, too. Touched ninety miles an hour at times--didn't we, Mr.
Sharp?"

"That's what," agreed a tall, thin, dark-complexioned man, who followed
Tom Swift more leisurely in his exit from the cabin. Mr. Sharp, a
veteran aeronaut, stopped to fasten guy ropes from the airship to
strong stakes driven into the ground.

"And we'd have done better, only we struck a hard wind against us about
two miles up in the air, which delayed us," went on Tom. "Did you hear
us coming, dad?"

"Yes, and it startled him," put in Mrs. Baggert. "I guess he wasn't
expecting you."

"Oh, well, I shouldn't have been so alarmed, only I was thinking deeply
about a certain change I am going to make in the submarine, Tom. I was
day-dreaming, I think, when your ship whizzed through the air. But tell
me, did you find everything all right at Shopton? No signs of any of
those scoundrels of the Happy Harry gang having been around?" and Mr.
Swift looked anxiously at his son.

"Not a sign, dad," replied Tom quickly. "Everything was all right. We
brought the things you wanted. They're in the airship. Oh, but it was a
fine trip. I'd like to take another right out to sea."

"Not now, Tom," said his father. "I want you to help me.  And I need
Mr. Sharp's help, too. Get the things out of the car, and we'll go to
the shop."

"First I think we'd better put the airship away," advised Mr. Sharp. "I
don't just like the looks of the weather, and, besides, if we leave the
ship exposed we'll be sure to have a crowd around sooner or later, and
we don't want that."

"No, indeed," remarked the aged inventor hastily. "I don't want people
prying around the submarine shed. By all means put the airship away,
and then come into the shop."

In spite of its great size the aeroplane was easily wheeled along by
Tom and Mr. Sharp, for the gas in the container made it so buoyant that
it barely touched the earth. A little more of the powerful vapor and
the Red Cloud would have risen by itself. In a few minutes the
wonderful craft, of which my readers have been told in detail in a
previous volume, was safely housed in a large tent, which was securely
fastened.

Mr. Sharp and Tom, carrying some bundles which they had taken from the
car, or cabin, of the craft, went toward a large shed, which adjoined
the house that Mr. Swift had hired for the season at the seashore. They
found the lad's father standing before a great shape, which loomed up
dimly in the semi-darkness of the building. It was like an immense
cylinder, pointed at either end, and here and there were openings,
covered with thick glass, like immense, bulging eyes. From the number
of tools and machinery all about the place, and from the appearance of
the great cylinder itself, it was easy to see that it was only partly
completed.

"Well, how goes it, dad?" asked the youth, as he deposited his bundle
on a bench. "Do you think you can make it work?"

"I think so, Tom. The positive and negative plates are giving me
considerable trouble, though. But I guess we can solve the problem. Did
you bring me the galvanometer?"

"Yes, and all the other things," and the young inventor proceeded to
take the articles from the bundles he carried.

Mr. Swift looked them over carefully, while Tom walked about examining
the submarine, for such was the queer craft that was contained in the
shed.  He noted that some progress had been made on it since he had
left the seacoast several days before to make a trip to Shopton, in New
York State, where the Swift home was located, after some tools and
apparatus that his father wanted to obtain from his workshop there.

"You and Mr. Jackson have put on several new plates," observed the lad
after a pause.

"Yes," admitted his father. "Garret and I weren't idle, were we,
Garret?" and he nodded to the aged engineer, who had been in his employ
for many years.

"No; and I guess we'll soon have her in the water, Tom, now that you
and Mr. Sharp are here to help us," replied Garret Jackson.

"We ought to have Mr. Damon here to bless the submarine and his liver
and collar buttons a few times," put in Mr. Sharp, who brought in
another bundle. He referred to an eccentric individual who had recently
made an airship voyage with himself and Tom, Mr. Damon's peculiarity
being to use continually such expressions as: "Bless my soul! Bless my
liver!"

"Well, I'll be glad when we can make a trial trip," went on Tom. "I've
traveled pretty fast on land with my motorcycle, and we certainly have
hummed through the air. Now I want to see how it feels to scoot along
under water."

"Well, if everything goes well we'll be in position to make a trial
trip inside of a month," remarked the aged inventor. "Look here, Mr.
Sharp, I made a change in the steering gear, which I'd like you and Tom
to consider."

The three walked around to the rear of the odd-looking structure, if an
object shaped like a cigar can be said to have a front and rear, and
the inventor, his son, and the aeronaut were soon deep in a discussion
of the technicalities connected with under-water navigation.

A little later they went into the house, in response to a summons from
the supper bell, vigorously rung by Mrs. Baggert. She was not fond of
waiting with meals, and even the most serious problem of mechanics was,
in her estimation, as nothing compared with having the soup get cold,
or the possibility of not having the meat done to a turn.

The meal was interspersed with remarks about the recent airship flight
of Tom and Mr. Sharp, and discussions about the new submarine. This
talk went on even after the table was cleared off and the three had
adjourned to the sitting-room. There Mr. Swift brought out pencil and
paper, and soon he and Mr. Sharp were engrossed in calculating the
pressure per square inch of sea water at a depth of three miles.

"Do you intend to go as deep as that?" asked Tom, looking up from a
paper he was reading.

"Possibly," replied his father; and his son resumed his perusal of the
sheet.

"Now," went on the inventor to the aeronaut, "I have another plan. In
addition to the positive and negative plates which will form our motive
power, I am going to install forward and aft propellers, to use in case
of accident."

"I say, dad! Did you see this?" suddenly exclaimed Tom, getting up from
his chair, and holding his finger on a certain place in the page of the
paper.

"Did I see what?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Why, this account of the sinking of the treasure ship."

"Treasure ship? No. Where?"

"Listen," went on Tom. "I'll read it: 'Further advices from Montevideo,
Uruguay, South America, state that all hope has been given up of
recovering the steamship Boldero, which foundered and went down off
that coast in the recent gale.  Not only has all hope been abandoned of
raising the vessel, but it is feared that no part of the three hundred
thousand dollars in gold bullion which she carried will ever be
recovered. Expert divers who were taken to the scene of the wreck state
that the depth of water, and the many currents existing there, due to a
submerged shoal, preclude any possibility of getting at the hull. The
bullion, it is believed, was to have been used to further the interests
of a certain revolutionary faction, but it seems likely that they will
have to look elsewhere for the sinews of war.  Besides the bullion the
ship also carried several cases of rifles, it is stated, and other
valuable cargo. The crew and what few passengers the Boldero carried
were, contrary to the first reports, all saved by taking to the boats.
It appears that some of the ship's plates were sprung by the stress in
which she labored in a storm, and she filled and sank gradually.'
There! what do you think of that, dad?" cried Tom as he finished.

"What do I think of it? Why, I think it's too bad for the
revolutionists, Tom, of course."

"No; I mean about the treasure being still on board the ship. What
about that?"

"Well, it's likely to stay there, if the divers can't get at it. Now,
Mr. Sharp, about the propellers--"

"Wait, dad!" cried Tom earnestly.

"Why, Tom, what's the matter?" asked Mr. Swift in some surprise.

"How soon before we can finish our submarine?" went on Tom, not
answering the question.

"About a month. Why?"

"Why? Dad, why can't we have a try for that treasure? It ought to be
comparatively easy to find that sunken ship off the coast of Uruguay.
In our submarine we can get close up to it, and in the new diving suits
you invented we can get at that gold bullion. Three hundred thousand
dollars! Think of it, dad! Three hundred thousand dollars! We could
easily claim all of it, since the owners have abandoned it, but we
would be satisfied with half. Let's hurry up, finish the submarine, and
have a try for it."

"But, Tom, you forget that I am to enter my new ship in the trials for
the prize offered by the United States Government."

"How much is the prize if you win it?" asked Tom.

"Fifty thousand dollars."

"Well, here's a chance to make three times that much at least, and
maybe more. Dad, let the Government prize go, and try for the treasure.
Will you?"

Tom looked eagerly at his father, his eyes shining with anticipation.
Mr. Swift was not a quick thinker, but the idea his son had proposed
made an impression on him. He reached out his hand for the paper in
which the young inventor had seen the account of the sunken treasure.
Slowly he read it through. Then he passed it to Mr. Sharp.

"What do you think of it?" he asked of the aeronaut.

"There's a possibility," remarked the balloonist "We might try for it.
We can easily go three miles down, and it doesn't lie as deeply as
that, if this account is true. Yes, we might try for it. But we'd have
to omit the Government contests."

"Will you, dad?" asked Tom again.

Mr. Swift considered a moment longer.

"Yes, Tom, I will," he finally decided. "Going after the treasure will
be likely to afford us a better test of the submarine than would any
Government tests. We'll try to locate the sunken Boldero."

"Hurrah!" cried the lad, taking the paper from Mr. Sharp and waving it
in the air. "That's the stuff!  Now for a search for the submarine
treasure!"




Chapter Two

Finishing the Submarine


"What's the matter?" cried Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper, hurrying in
from the kitchen, where she was washing the dishes. "Have you seen some
of those scoundrels who robbed you, Mr. Swift? If you have, the police
down here ought to--"

"No, it's nothing like that," explained Mr. Swift. "Tom has merely
discovered in the paper an account of a sunken treasure ship, and he
wants us to go after it, down under the ocean."

"Oh, dear! Some more of Captain Kidd's hidden hoard, I suppose?"
ventured the housekeeper. "Don't you bother with it, Mr. Swift. I had a
cousin once, and he got set in the notion that he knew where that
pirate's treasure was. He spent all the money he had and all he could
borrow digging for it, and he never found a penny. Don't waste your
time on such foolishness. It's bad enough to be building airships and
submarines without going after treasure."  Mrs. Baggert spoke with the
freedom of an old friend rather than a hired housekeeper, but she had
been in the family ever since Tom's mother died, when he was a baby,
and she had many privileges.

"Oh, this isn't any of Kidd's treasure," Tom assured her.  "If we get
it, Mrs. Baggert, I'll buy you a diamond ring."

"Humph!" she exclaimed, as Tom began to hug her in boyish fashion. "I
guess I'll have to buy all the diamond rings I want, if I have to
depend on your treasure for them," and she went back to the kitchen.

"Well," went on Mr. Swift after a pause, "if we are going into the
treasure-hunting business, Tom, we'll have to get right to work. In the
first place, we must find out more about this ship, and just where it
was sunk."

"I can do that part," said Mr. Sharp. "I know some sea captains, and
they can put me on the track of locating the exact spot. In fact, it
might not be a bad idea to take an expert navigator with us. I can
manage in the air all right, but I confess that working out a location
under water is beyond me."

"Yes, an old sea captain wouldn't be a bad idea, by any means,"
conceded Mr. Swift. "Well, if you'll attend to that detail, Mr. Sharp,
Tom, Mr. Jackson and I will finish the submarine. Most of the work is
done, however, and it only remains to install the engine and motors.
Now, in regard to the negative and positive electric plates, I'd like
your opinion, Tom."

For Tom Swift was an inventor, second in ability only to his father,
and his advice was often sought by his parent on matters of electrical
construction, for the lad had made a specialty of that branch of
science.

While father and son were deep in a discussion of the apparatus of the
submarine, there will be an opportunity to make the reader a little
better acquainted with them. Those of you who have read the previous
volumes of this series do not need to be told who Tom Swift is. Others,
however, may be glad to have a proper introduction to him.

Tom Swift lived with his father, Barton Swift, in the village of
Shopton, New York. The Swift home was on the outskirts of the town, and
the large house was surrounded by a number of machine shops, in which
father and son, aided by Garret Jackson, the engineer, did their
experimental and constructive work. Their house was not far from Lake
Carlopa, a fairly large body of water, on which Tom often speeded his
motor-boat.

In the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Cycle," it was told how he became acquainted with Mr. Wakefield
Damon, who suffered an accident while riding one of the speedy
machines. The accident disgusted Mr. Damon with motor-cycles, and Tom
secured it for a low price. He had many adventures on it, chief among
which was being knocked senseless and robbed of a valuable patent model
belonging to his father, which he was taking to Albany. The attack was
committed by a gang known as the Happy Harry gang, who were acting at
the instigation of a syndicate of rich men, who wanted to secure
control of a certain patent turbine engine which Mr. Swift had invented.

Tom set out in pursuit of the thieves, after recovering from their
attack, and had a strenuous time before he located them.

In the second volume, entitled "Tom Swift and His Motor-Boat," there
was related our hero's adventures in a fine craft which was recovered
from the thieves and sold at auction. There was a mystery connected
with the boat, and for a long time Tom could not solve it. He was
aided, however, by his chum, Ned Newton, who worked in the Shopton
Bank, and also by Mr. Damon and Eradicate Sampson, an aged colored
whitewasher, who formed quite an attachment for Tom.

In his motor-boat Tom had more than one race with Andy Foger, a rich
lad of Shopton, who was a sort of bully. He had red hair and squinty
eyes, and was as mean in character as he was in looks. He and his
cronies, Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey, made trouble for Tom, chiefly
because Tom managed to beat Andy twice in boat races.

It was while in his motor-boat, Arrow, that Tom formed the acquaintance
of John Sharp, a veteran balloonist. While coming down Lake Carlopa on
the way to the Swift home, which had been entered by thieves, Tom, his
father and Ned Newton, saw a balloon on fire over the lake. Hanging
from a trapeze on it was Mr. Sharp, who had made an ascension from a
fair ground. By hard work on the part of Tom and his friends the
aeronaut was saved, and took up his residence with the Swifts.

His advent was most auspicious, for Tom and his father were then
engaged in perfecting an airship, and Mr. Sharp was able to lend them
his skill, so that the craft was soon constructed.

In the third volume, called "Tom Swift and His Airship," there was set
down the doings of the young inventor, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon on a
trip above the clouds. They undertook it merely for pleasure, but they
encountered considerable danger, before they completed it, for they
nearly fell into a blazing forest once, and were later fired at by a
crowd of excited people. This last act was to effect their capture, for
they were taken for a gang of bank robbers, and this was due directly
to Andy Foger.

The morning after Tom and his friends started on their trip in the air,
the Shopton Bank was found to have been looted of seventy-five thousand
dollars. Andy Foger at once told the police that Tom Swift had taken
the money, and when asked how he knew this, he said he had seen Tom
hanging around the bank the night before the vault was burst open, and
that the young inventor had some burglar tools in his possession.
Warrants were at once sworn out for Tom and Mr. Damon, who was also
accused of being one of the robbers, and a reward of five thousand
dollars was offered.

Tom, Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp sailed on, all unaware of this, and unable
to account for being fired upon, until they accidentally read in the
paper an account of their supposed misdeeds. They lost no time in
starting back home, and on the way got on the track of the real bank
robbers, who were members of the Happy Harry gang.

How the robbers were captured in an exciting raid, how Tom recovered
most of the stolen money, and how he gave Andy Foger a deserved
thrashing for giving a false clue was told of, and there was an account
of a race in which the Red Cloud (as the airship was called) took part,
as well as details of how Tom and his friends secured the reward, which
Andy Foger hoped to collect.

Those of you who care to know how the Red Cloud was constructed, and
how she behaved in the air, even during accidents and when struck by
lightning, may learn by reading the third volume, for the airship was
one of the most successful ever constructed.

When the craft was finished, and the navigators were ready to start on
their first long trip, Mr. Swift was asked to go with them. He
declined, but would not tell why, until Tom, pressing him for an
answer, learned that his father was planning a submarine boat, which he
hoped to enter in some trials for Government prizes. Mr. Swift remained
at home to work on this submarine, while his son and Mr. Sharp were
sailing above the clouds.

On their return, however, and after the bank mystery had been cleared
up, Tom and Mr. Sharp, aided Mr. Swift in completing the submarine,
until, when the present story opens, it needed but little additional
work to make the craft ready for the water.

Of course it had to be built near the sea, as it would have been
impossible to transport it overland from Shopton.  So, before the keel
was laid, Mr. Swift rented a large cottage at a seaside place on the
New Jersey coast and there, after erecting a large shed, the work on
the Advance, as the under-water ship was called, was begun.

It was soon to be launched in a large creek that extended in from the
ocean and had plenty of water at high tide. Tom and Mr. Sharp made
several trips back and forth from Shopton in their airship, to see that
all was safe at home and occasionally to get needed tools and supplies
from the shops, for not all the apparatus could be moved from Shopton
to the coast.

It was when returning from one of these trips that Tom brought with him
the paper containing an account of the wreck of the Boldero and the
sinking of the treasure she carried.

Until late that night the three fortune-hunters discussed various
matters.

"We'll hurry work on the ship," said Mr. Swift at length.  "Tom, I
wonder if your friend, Mr. Damon, would care to try how it seems under
water? He stood the air trip fairly well."

"I'll write and ask him," answered the lad. "I'm sure he'll go."

Securing, a few days later, the assistance of two mechanics, whom he
knew he could trust, for as yet the construction of the Advance was a
secret, Mr. Swift prepared to rush work on the submarine, and for the
next three weeks there were busy times in the shed next to the seaside
cottage. So busy, in fact, were Tom and Mr. Sharp, that they only found
opportunity for one trip in the airship, and that was to get some
supplies from the shops at home.

"Well," remarked Mr. Swift one night, at the close of a hard day's
work, "another week will see our craft completed.  Then we will put it
in the water and see how it floats, and whether it submerges as I hope
it does. But come on, Tom. I want to lock up. I'm very tired to-night."

"All right, dad," answered the young inventor coming from the darkened
rear of the shop. "I just want to--"

He paused suddenly, and appeared to be listening. Then he moved softly
back to where he had come from.

"What's the matter?" asked his father in a whisper.  "What's up, Tom?"

The lad did not answer Mr. Swift, with a worried look on his face,
followed his son. Mr. Sharp stood in the door of the shop.

"I thought I heard some one moving around back here," went on Tom
quietly.

"Some one in this shop!" exclaimed the aged inventor excitedly. "Some
one trying to steal my ideas again! Mr. Sharp, come here! Bring that
rifle! We'll teach these scoundrels a lesson!"

Tom quickly darted back to the extreme rear of the building. There was
a scuffle, and the next minute Tom cried out:

"What are you doing here?"

"Ha! I beg your pardon," replied a voice. "I am looking for Mr. Barton
Swift."

"My father," remarked Tom. "But that's a queer place to look for him.
He's up front. Father, here's a man who wishes to see you," he called.

"Yes, I strolled in, and seeing no one about I went to the rear of the
place," the voice went on. "I hope I haven't transgressed."

"We were busy on the other side of the shop, I guess," replied Tom, and
he looked suspiciously at the man who emerged from the darkness into
the light from a window. "I beg your pardon for grabbing you the way I
did," went on the lad, "but I thought you were one of a gang of men
we've been having trouble with."

"Oh, that's all right," continued the man easily. "I know Mr. Swift,
and I think he will remember me. Ah, Mr. Swift, how do you do?" he
added quickly, catching sight of Tom's father, who, with Mr. Sharp, was
coming to meet the lad.

"Addison Berg!" exclaimed the aged inventor as he saw the man's face
more plainly. "What are you doing here?"

"I came to see you," replied the man. "May I have a talk with you
privately?"

"I--I suppose so," assented Mr. Swift nervously. "Come into the house."

Mr. Berg left Tom's side and advanced to where Mr. Swift was standing.
Together the two emerged from the now fast darkening shop and went
toward the house.

"Who is he?" asked Mr. Sharp of the young inventor in a whisper.

"I don't know," replied the lad; "but, whoever he is, dad seems afraid
of him. I'm going to keep my eyes open."




Chapter Three

Mr. Berg is Astonished


Following his father and the stranger whom the aged inventor had
addressed as Mr. Berg, Tom and Mr. Sharp entered the house, the lad
having first made sure that Garret Jackson was on guard in the shop
that contained the submarine.

"Now," said Mr. Swift to the newcomer, "I am at your service. What is
it you wish?"

"In the first place, let me apologize for having startled you and your
friends," began the man. "I had no idea of sneaking into your workshop,
but I had just arrived here, and seeing the doors open I went in. I
heard no one about, and I wandered to the back of the place. There I
happened to stumble over a board--"

"And I heard you," interrupted Tom.

"Is this one of your employees?" asked Mr. Berg in rather frigid tones.

"That is my son," replied Mr. Swift.

"Oh, I beg your pardon." The man's manner changed quickly.  "Well, I
guess you did hear me, young man. I didn't intend to bark my shins the
way I did, either. You must have taken me for a burglar or a sneak
thief."

"I have been very much bothered by a gang of unscrupulous men," said
Mr. Swift, "and I suppose Tom thought it was some of them sneaking
around again."

"That's what I did," added the lad. "I wasn't going to have any one
steal the secret of the submarine if I could help it."

"Quite right! Quite right!" exclaimed Mr. Berg. "But my purpose was an
open one. As you know, Mr. Swift, I represent the firm of Bentley &
Eagert, builders of submarine boats and torpedoes. They heard that you
were constructing a craft to take part in the competitive prize tests
of the United States Government, and they asked me to come and see you
to learn when your ship would be ready. Ours is completed, but we
recognize that it will be for the best interests of all concerned if
there are a number of contestants, and my firm did not want to send in
their entry until they knew that you were about finished with your
ship. How about it? Are you ready to compete?"

"Yes," said Mr. Swift slowly. "We are about ready. My craft needs a few
finishing touches, and then it will be ready to launch."

"Then we may expect a good contest on your part," suggested Mr. Berg.

"Well," began the aged inventor, "I don't know about that."

"What's that?" exclaimed Mr. Berg.

"I said I wasn't quite sure that we would compete," went on Mr. Swift.
"You see, when I first got this idea for a submarine boat I had it in
mind to try for the Government prize of fifty thousand dollars."

"That's what we want, too," interrupted Mr. Berg with a smile.

"But," went on Tom's father, "since then certain matters have come up,
and I think, on the whole, that we'll not compete for the prize after
all."

"Not compete for the prize?" almost shouted the agent for Bentley &
Eagert. "Why, the idea! You ought to compete. It is good for the trade.
We think we have a very fine craft, and probably we would beat you in
the tests, but--"

"I wouldn't be too sure of that," put in Tom. "You have only seen the
outside of our boat. The inside is better yet."

"Ah, I have no doubt of that," spoke Mr. Berg, "but we have been at the
business longer than you have, and have had more experience. Still we
welcome competition. But I am very much surprised that you are not
going to compete for the prize, Mr. Swift. Very much surprised, indeed!
You see, I came down from Philadelphia to arrange so that we could both
enter our ships at the same time. I understand there is another firm of
submarine boat builders who are going to try for the prize, and I want
to arrange a date that will be satisfactory to all. I am greatly
astonished that you are not going to compete."

"Well, we were going to," said Mr. Swift, "only we have changed our
minds, that's all. My son and I have other plans."

"May I ask what they are?" questioned Mr. Berg.

"You may," exclaimed Tom quickly; "but I don't believe we can tell you.
They're a secret," he added more cordially.

"Oh, I see," retorted Mr. Berg. "Well, of course I don't wish to
penetrate any of your secrets, but I hoped we could contest together
for the Government prize. It is worth trying for I assure you--fifty
thousand dollars. Besides, there is the possibility of selling a number
of submarines to the United States. It's a fine prize."

"But the one we are after is a bigger one," cried Tom impetuously, and
the moment he had spoken he wished he could recall the words.

"Eh? What's that?" exclaimed Mr. Berg. "You don't mean to say another
government has offered a larger prize? If I had known that I would not
have let my firm enter into the competition for the bonus offered by
the United States.  Please tell me."

"I'm sorry," went on Tom more soberly. "I shouldn't have spoken. Mr.
Berg, the plans of my father and myself are such that we can't reveal
them now. We are going to try for a prize, but not in competition with
you. It's an entirely different matter."

"Well, I guess you'll find that the firm of Bentley & Eagert are
capable of trying for any prizes that are offered," boasted the agent.
"We may be competitors yet."

"I don't believe so," replied Mr. Swift.

"We may," repeated Mr. Berg. "And if we do, please remember that we
will show no mercy. Our boats are the best."

"And may the best boat win," interjected Mr. Sharp.  "That's all we
ask. A fair field and no favors."

"Of course," spoke the agent coldly. "Is this another son of yours?" he
asked.

"No but a good friend," replied the aged inventor. "No, Mr. Berg, we
won't compete this time. You may tell your firm so."

"Very good," was the other's stiff reply. "Then I will bid you good
night. We shall carry off the Government prize, but permit me to add
that I am very much astonished, very much indeed, that you do not try
for the prize. From what I have seen of your submarine you have a very
good one, almost as good, in some respects, as ours.  I bid you good
night," and with a bow the man left the room and hurried away from the
house.




Chapter Four

Tom is Imprisoned


"Well, I must say he's a cool one," remarked Tom, as the echoes of Mr.
Berg's steps died away. "The idea of thinking his boat better than
ours! I don't like that man, dad. I'm suspicious of him. Do you think
he came here to steal some of our ideas?"

"No, I hardly believe so, my son. But how did you discover him?"

"Just as you saw, dad. I heard a noise and went back there to
investigate. I found him sneaking around, looking at the electric
propeller plates. I went to grab him just as he stumbled over a board.
At first I thought it was one of the old gang. I'm almost sure he was
trying to discover something."

"No, Tom. The firm he works for are good business men, and they would
not countenance anything like that. They are heartless competitors,
however, and if they saw a legitimate chance to get ahead of me and
take advantage, they would do it. But they would not sneak in to steal
my ideas. I feel sure of that. Besides, they have a certain type of
submarine which they think is the best ever invented, and they would
hardly change at this late day. They feel sure of winning the
Government prize, and I'm just as glad we're not going to have a
contest."

"Do you think our boat is better than theirs?"

"Much better, in many respects."

"I don't like that man Berg, though," went on Tom.

"Nor do I," added his father. "There is something strange about him.
He was very anxious that I should compete.  Probably he thought his
firm's boat would go so far ahead of ours that they would get an extra
bonus. But I'm glad he didn't see our new method of propulsion. That is
the principal improvement in the Advance over other types of
submarines. Well, another week and we will be ready for the test."

"Have you known Mr. Berg long, dad?"

"Not very. I met him in Washington when I was in the patent office. He
was taking out papers on a submarine for his firm at the same time I
got mine for the Advance. It is rather curious that he should come all
the way here from Philadelphia, merely to see if I was going to
compete. There is something strange about it, something that I can't
understand."

The time was to come when Mr. Swift and his son were to get at the
bottom of Mr. Berg's reasons, and they learned to their sorrow that he
had penetrated some of their secrets.

Before going to bed that night Tom and Mr. Sharp paid a visit to the
shed where the submarine was resting on the ways, ready for launching.
They found Mr. Jackson on guard and the engineer said that no one had
been around. Nor was anything found disturbed.

"It certainly is a great machine," remarked the lad as he looked up at
the cigar-shaped bulk towering over his head.  "Dad has outdone himself
this trip."

"It looks all right," commented Mr. Sharp. "Whether it will work is
another question."

"Yes, we can't tell until it's in the water," conceded Tom. "But I
hope it does. Dad has spent much time and money on it."

The Advance was, as her name indicated, much in advance of previous
submarines. There was not so much difference in outward construction as
there was in the means of propulsion and in the manner in which the
interior and the machinery were arranged.

The submarine planned by Mr. Swift and Tom jointly, and constructed by
them, with the aid of Mr. Sharp and Mr. Jackson, was shaped like a
Cigar, over one hundred feet long and twenty feet in diameter at the
thickest part. It was divided into many compartments, all water-tight,
so that if one or even three were flooded the ship would still be
useable.

Buoyancy was provided for by having several tanks for the introduction
of compressed air, and there was an emergency arrangement so that a
collapsible aluminum container could be distended and filled with a
powerful gas. This was to be used if, by any means, the ship was
disabled on the bottom of the ocean. The container could be expanded
and filled, and would send the Advance to the surface.

Another peculiar feature was that the engine-room, dynamos and other
apparatus were all contained amidships. This gave stability to the
craft, and also enabled the same engine to operate both shafts and
propellers, as well as both the negative forward electrical plates, and
the positive rear ones.

These plates were a new idea in submarine construction, and were the
outcome of an idea of Mr. Swift, with some suggestions from his son.

The aged inventor did not want to depend on the usual screw propellers
for his craft, nor did he want to use a jet of compressed air, shooting
out from a rear tube, nor yet a jet of water, by means of which the
creature called the squid shoots himself along. Mr. Swift planned to
send the Advance along under water by means of electricity.

Certain peculiar plates were built at the forward and aft blunt noses
of the submarine. Into the forward plate a negative charge of
electricity was sent, and into the one at the rear a positive charge,
just as one end of a horseshoe magnet is positive and will repel the
north end of a compass needle, while the other pole of a magnet is
negative and will attract it. In electricity like repels like, while
negative and positive have a mutual attraction for each other.

Mr. Swift figured out that if he could send a powerful current of
negative electricity into the forward plate it would pull the boat
along, for water is a good conductor of electricity, while if a
positive charge was sent into the rear plate it would serve to push the
submarine along, and he would thus get a pulling and pushing motion,
just as a forward and aft propeller works on some ferry boats.

But the inventor did not depend on these plates alone.  There were
auxiliary forward and aft propellers of the regular type, so that if
the electrical plates did not work, or got out of order, the screws
would serve to send the Advance along.

There was much machinery in the submarine. There were gasolene motors,
since space was too cramped to allow the carrying of coal for boilers.
There were dynamos, motors and powerful pumps. Some of these were for
air, and some for water. To sink the submarine below the surface large
tanks were filled with water. To insure a more sudden descent,
deflecting rudders were also used, similar to those on an airship.
There were also special air pumps, and one for the powerful gas, which
was manufactured on board.

Forward from the engine-room was a cabin, where meals could be served,
and where the travelers could remain in the daytime. There was also a
small cooking galley, or kitchen, there. Back of the engine-room were
the sleeping quarters and the storerooms. The submarine was steered
from the forward compartment, and here were also levers, wheels and
valves that controlled all the machinery, while a number of dials
showed in which direction they were going, how deep they were, and at
what speed they were moving, as well as what the ocean pressure was.

On top, forward, was a small conning, or observation tower, with
auxiliary and steering and controlling apparatus there. This was to be
used when the ship was moving along on the surface of the ocean, or
merely with the deck awash.  There was a small flat deck surrounding
the conning tower and this was available when the craft was on the
surface.

There was provision made for leaving the ship when it was on the bed of
the ocean. When it was desired to do this the occupants put on diving
suits, which were provided with portable oxygen tanks. Then they
entered a chamber into which water was admitted until it was equal in
pressure to that outside. Then a steel door was opened, and they could
step out. To re-enter the ship the operation was reversed.  This was
not a new feature. In fact, many submarines to-day use it.

At certain places there were thick bull's-eye windows, by means of
which the under-water travelers could look out into the ocean through
which they were moving. As a defense against the attacks of submarine
monsters there was a steel, pointed ram, like a big harpoon. There were
also a bow and a stern electrical gun, of which more will be told later.

In addition to ample sleeping accommodations, there were many
conveniences aboard the Advance. Plenty of fresh water could be
carried, and there was an apparatus for distilling more from the sea
water that surrounded the travelers.  Compressed air was carried in
large tanks, and oxygen could be made as needed. In short, nothing that
could add to the comfort or safety of the travelers had been omitted.
There was a powerful crane and windlass, which had been installed when
Mr. Swift thought his boat might be bought by the Government. This was
to be used for raising wrecks or recovering objects from the bottom of
the ocean. Ample stores and provisions were to be carried and, once the
travelers were shut up in the Advance, they could exist for a month
below the surface, providing no accident occurred.

All these things Tom and Mr. Sharp thought of as they looked over the
ship before turning in for the night. The craft was made immensely
strong to withstand powerful pressure at the bottom of the ocean. The
submarine could penetrate to a depth of about three miles. Below that
it was dangerous to go, as the awful force would crush the plates,
powerful as they were.

"Well, we'll rush things to-morrow and the next day," observed Tom as
he prepared to leave the building. "Then we'll soon see if it works."

For the next week there were busy times in the shop near the ocean.
Great secrecy was maintained, and though curiosity seekers did stroll
along now and then, they received little satisfaction. At first Mr.
Swift thought that the visit of Mr. Berg would have unpleasant results,
for he feared that the agent would talk about the craft, of which he
had so unexpectedly gotten a sight. But nothing seemed to follow from
his chance inspection, and it was forgotten.

It was one evening, about a week later, that Tom was alone in the shop.
The two mechanics that had been hired to help out in the rush had been
let go, and the ship needed but a few adjustments to make it ready for
the sea.

"I think I'll just take another look at the water tank valves," said
Tom to himself as he prepared to enter the big compartments which
received the water ballast. "I want to be sure they work properly and
quickly. We've got to depend on them to make us sink when we want to,
and, what's more important, to rise to the surface in a hurry. I've got
time enough to look them over before dad and Mr. Sharp get back."

Tom entered the starboard tank by means of an emergency sliding door
between the big compartments and the main part of the ship. This was
closed by a worm and screw gear, and once the ship was in the water
would seldom be used.

The young inventor proceeded with his task, carefully inspecting the
valves by the light of a lantern he carried.  The apparatus seemed to
be all right, and Tom was about to leave when a peculiar noise
attracted his attention. It was the sound of metal scraping on metal,
and the lad's quick and well-trained ear told him it was somewhere
about the ship.

He turned to leave the tank, but as he wheeled around his light flashed
on a solid wall of steel back of him. The emergency outlet had been
closed! He was a prisoner in the water compartment, and he knew, from
past experience, that shout as he would, his voice could not be heard
ten feet away. His father and Mr. Sharp, as he was aware, had gone to a
nearby city for some tools, and Mr. Jackson, the engineer, was
temporarily away. Mrs. Baggert, in the house, could not hear his cries.

"I'm locked in!" cried Tom aloud. "The worm gear must have shut of
itself. But I don't see how that could be. I've got to get out mighty
soon, though, or I'll smother. This tank is airtight, and it won't take
me long to breath up all the oxygen there is here. I must get that
slide open."

He sought to grasp the steel plate that closed the emergency opening.
His fingers slipped over the smooth, polished surface. He was
hermetically sealed up--a captive!  Blankly he set his lantern down and
leaned hopelessly against the wall of the tank.

"I've got to get out," he murmured.

As if in answer to him he heard a voice on the outside, crying:

"There, Tom Swift! I guess I've gotten even with you now!  Maybe next
time you won't take a reward away from me, and lick me into the
bargain. I've got you shut up good and tight, and you'll stay there
until I get ready to let you out."

"Andy Foger!" gasped Tom. "Andy Foger sneaked in here and turned the
gear. But how did he get to this part of the coast? Andy Foger, you let
me out!" shouted the young inventor; and as Andy's mocking laugh came
to him faintly through the steel sides of the submarine, the imprisoned
lad beat desperately with his hands on the smooth sides of the tank,
vainly wondering how his enemy had discovered him.




Chapter Five

Mr. Berg is Suspicious


Not for long did the young inventor endeavor to break his way out of
the water-ballast tank by striking the heavy sides of it. Tom realized
that this was worse than useless.  He listened intently, but could hear
nothing. Even the retreating footsteps of Andy Foger were inaudible.

"This certainly is a pickle!" exclaimed Tom aloud. "I can't understand
how he ever got here. He must have traced us after we went to Shopton
in the airship the last time.  Then he sneaked in here. Probably he saw
me enter, but how could he know enough to work the worm gear and close
the door? Andy has had some experience with machinery, though, and one
of the vaults in the bank where his father is a director closed just
like this tank. That's very likely how he learned about it. But I've
got to do something else besides thinking of that sneak, Andy. I've got
to get out of here. Let's see if I can work the gear from inside."

Before he started, almost, Tom knew that it would be impossible. The
tank was made to close from the interior of the submarine, and the
heavy door, built to withstand the pressure of tons of water, could not
be forced except by the proper means.

"No use trying that," concluded the lad, after a tiring attempt to
force back the sliding door with his hands. "I've got to call for help."

He shouted until the vibrations in the confined space made his ears
ring, and the mere exertion of raising his voice to the highest pitch
made his heart beat quickly. Yet there came no response. He hardly
expected that there would be any, for with his father and Mr. Sharp
away, the engineer absent on an errand, and Mrs. Baggert in the house
some distance off, there was no one to hear his calls for help, even if
they had been capable of penetrating farther than the extent of the
shed, where the under-water craft had been constructed.

"I've got to wait until some of them come out here," thought Tom.
"They'll be sure to release me and make a search. Then it will be easy
enough to call to them and tell them where I am, once they are inside
the shed. But--" He paused, for a horrible fear came over him. "Suppose
they should come--too late?" The tank was airtight. There was enough
air in it to last for some time, but, sooner or later, it would no
longer support life. Already, Tom thought, it seemed oppressive, though
probably that was his imagination.

"I must get out!" he repeated frantically. "I'll die in here soon."

Again he tried to shove back the steel door. Then he repeated his cries
until he was weary. No one answered him.  He fancied once he could hear
footsteps in the shed, and thought, perhaps, it was Andy, come back to
gloat over him.  Then Tom knew the red-haired coward would not dare
venture back. We must do Andy the justice to say that he never realized
that he was endangering Tom's life. The bully had no idea the tank was
airtight when he closed it. He had seen Tom enter and a sudden whim
came to him to revenge himself.

But that did not help the young inventor any. There was no doubt about
it now--the air was becoming close. Tom had been imprisoned nearly two
hours, and as he was a healthy, strong lad, he required plenty of
oxygen. There was certainly less than there had been in the tank. His
head began to buzz, and there was a ringing in his ears.

Once more he fell upon his knees, and his fingers sought the small
projections of the gear on the inside of the door. He could no more
budge the mechanism than a child could open a burglar-proof vault.

"It's no use," he moaned, and he sprawled at full length on the floor
of the tank, for there the air was purer. As he did so his fingers
touched something. He started as they closed around the handle of a big
monkey wrench. It was one he had brought into the place with him.
Imbued with new hope he struck a match and lighted his lantern, which
he had allowed to go out as it burned up too much of the oxygen. By the
gleam of it he looked to see if there were any bolts or nuts he could
loosen with the wrench, in order to slide the door back. It needed but
a glance to show him the futility of this.

"It's no go," he murmured, and he let the wrench fall to the floor.
There was a ringing, clanging sound, and as it smote his ears Tom
sprang up with an exclamation.

"That's the thing!" he cried. "I wonder I didn't think of it before. I
can signal for help by pounding on the sides of the tank with the
wrench. The blows will carry a good deal farther than my voice would."
Every one knows how far the noise of a boiler shop, with hammers
falling on steel plates, can be heard; much farther than can a human
voice.

Tom began a lusty tattoo on the metal sides of the tank.  At first he
merely rattled out blow after blow, and then, as another thought came
to him, he adopted a certain plan. Some time previous, when he and Mr.
Sharp had planned their trip in the air, the two had adopted a code of
signals. As it was difficult in a high wind to shout from one end of
the airship to the other, the young inventor would sometimes pound on
the pipe which ran from the pilot house of the Red Cloud to the
engine-room. By a combination of numbers, simple messages could be
conveyed. The code included a call for help. Forty-seven was the
number, but there had never been any occasion to use it.

Tom remembered this now. At once he ceased his indiscriminate
hammering, and began to beat out regularly--one, two, three, four--then
a pause, and seven blows would be given. Over and over again he rang
out this number--forty seven--the call for help.

"If Mr. Sharp only comes back he will hear that, even in the house,"
thought poor Tom "Maybe Garret or Mrs. Baggert will hear it, too, but
they won't know what it means.  They'll think I'm just working on the
submarine."

It seemed several hours to Tom that he pounded out that cry for aid,
but, as he afterward learned, it was only a little over an hour. Signal
after signal he sent vibrating from the steel sides of the tank. When
one arm tired he would use the other. He grew weary, his head was
aching, and there was a ringing in his ears; a ringing that seemed as
if ten thousand bells were jangling out their peals, and he could
barely distinguish his own pounding.

Signal after signal he sounded. It was becoming like a dream to him,
when suddenly, as he paused for a rest, he heard his name called
faintly, as if far away.

"Tom! Tom! Where are you?"

It was the voice of Mr. Sharp. Then followed the tones of the aged
inventor.

"My poor boy! Tom, are you still alive?"

"Yes, dad! In the starboard tank!" the lad gasped out, and then he lost
his senses. When he revived he was lying on a pile of bagging in the
submarine shop, and his father and the aeronaut were bending over him.

"Are you all right, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Yes--I--I guess so," was the hesitating answer. "Yes," the lad added,
as the fresh air cleared his head. "I'll be all right pretty soon. Have
you seen Andy Foger?"

"Did he shut you in there?" demanded Mr. Swift.

Tom nodded.

"I'll have him arrested!" declared Mr. Swift. "I'll go to town as soon
as you're in good shape again and notify the police."

"No, don't," pleaded Tom. "I'll take care of Andy myself.  I don't
really believe he knew how serious it was. I'll settle with him later,
though."

"Well, it came mighty near being serious," remarked Mr. Sharp grimly.
"Your father and I came back a little sooner than we expected, and as
soon as I got near the house I heard your signal. I knew what it was in
a moment. There were Mrs. Baggert and Garret talking away, and when I
asked them why they didn't answer your call they said they thought you
were merely tinkering with the machinery. But I knew better. It's the
first time we ever had a use for 'forty-seven,' Tom."

"And I hope it will be the last," replied the young inventor with a
faint smile. "But I'd like to know what Andy Foger is doing in this
neighborhood."

Tom was soon himself again and able to go to the house, where he found
Mrs. Baggert brewing a big basin of catnip tea, under the impression
that it would in some way be good for him. She could not forgive
herself for not having answered his signal, and as for Mr. Jackson, he
had started for a doctor as soon as he learned that Tom was shut up in
the tank. The services of the medical man were canceled by telephone,
as there was no need for him, and the engineer came back to the house.

Tom was fully himself the next day, and aided his father and Mr. Sharp
in putting the finishing touches to the Advance. It was found that some
alteration was required in the auxiliary propellers, and this, much to
the regret of the young inventor, would necessitate postponing the
trial a few days.

"But we'll have her in the water next Friday," promised Mr. Swift.

"Aren't you superstitious about Friday?" asked the balloonist.

"Not a bit of it," replied the aged inventor. "Tom," he added, "I wish
you would go in the house and get me the roll of blueprints you'll find
on my desk."

As the lad neared the cottage he saw, standing in front of the place, a
small automobile. A man had just descended from it, and it needed but a
glance to show that he was Mr. Addison Berg.

"Ah, good morning, Mr. Swift," greeted Mr. Berg. "I wish to see your
father, but as I don't wish to lay myself open to suspicions by
entering the shop, perhaps you will ask him to step here."

"Certainly," answered the lad, wondering why the agent had returned.
Getting the blueprints, and asking Mr. Berg to sit down on the porch,
Tom delivered the message.

"You come back with me, Tom," said his father. "I want you to be a
witness to what he says. I'm not going to get into trouble with these
people."

Mr. Berg came to the point at once.

"Mr. Swift," he said, "I wish you would reconsider your determination
not to enter the Government trials. I'd like to see you compete. So
would my firm."

"There is no use going over that again," replied the aged inventor. "I
have another object in view now than trying for the Government prize.
What it is I can't say, but it may develop in time--if we are
successful," and he looked at his son, smiling the while.

Mr. Berg tried to argue, but it was of no avail. Then he changed his
manner, and said:

"Well, since you won't, you won't, I suppose. I'll go back and report
to my firm.  Have you anything special to do this morning?" he went on
to Tom.

"Well, I can always find something to keep me busy," replied the lad,
"but as for anything special--"

"I thought perhaps you'd like to go for a trip in my auto," interrupted
Mr. Berg. "I had asked a young man who is stopping at the same hotel
where I am to accompany me, but he has unexpectedly left, and I don't
like to go alone. His name was--let me see. I have a wretched memory
for names, but it was something like Roger or Moger."

"Foger!" cried Tom. "Was it Andy Foger?"

"Yes, that was it. Why, do you know him?" asked Mr. Berg in some
surprise.

"I should say so," replied Tom. "He was the cause of what might have
resulted in something serious for me," and the lad explained about
being imprisoned in the tank.

"You don't tell me!" cried Mr. Berg. "I had no idea he was that kind of
a lad. You see, his father is one of the directors of the firm by whom
I am employed. Andy came from home to spend a few weeks at the seaside,
and stopped at the same hotel that I did. He went off yesterday
afternoon, and I haven't seen him since, though he promised to go for a
ride with me. He must have come over here and entered your shop
unobserved. I remember now he asked me where the submarine was being
built that was going to compete with our firm's, and I told him. I
didn't think he was that kind of a lad. Well, since he's probably gone
back home, perhaps you will come for a ride with me, Tom."

"I'm afraid I can't go, thank you," answered the lad. "We are very busy
getting our submarine in shape for a trial.  But I can imagine why Andy
left so hurriedly. He probably learned that a doctor had been summoned
for me, though, as it happened, I didn't need one. But Andy probably
got frightened at what he had done, and left. I'll make him more sorry,
when I meet him."

"Don't blame you a bit," commented Mr. Berg. "Well, I must be getting
back."

He hastened out to his auto, while Tom and his father watched the agent.

"Tom, never trust that man," advised the aged inventor solemnly.

"Just what I was about to remark," said his son. "Well, let's get back
to work. Queer that he should come here again, and it's queer about
Andy Foger."

Father and son returned to the machine shop, while Mr. Berg puffed away
in his auto. A little later, Tom having occasion to go to a building
near the boundary line of the cottage property which his father had
hired for the season, saw, through the hedge that bordered it, an
automobile standing in the road. A second glance showed him that it was
Mr. Berg's machine. Something had gone wrong with it, and the agent had
alighted to make an adjustment.

The young inventor was close to the man, though the latter was unaware
of his presence.

"Hang it all!" Tom heard Mr. Berg exclaim to himself. "I wonder what
they can be up to? They won't enter the Government contests, and they
won't say why. I believe they're up to some game, and I've got to find
out what it is. I wonder if I couldn't use this Foger chap?"

"He seems to have it in for this Tom Swift," Mr. Berg went on, still
talking to himself, though not so low but that Tom could hear him. "I
think I'll try it. I'll get Andy Foger to sneak around and find out
what the game is. He'll do it, I know."

By this time the auto was in working order again, and the agent took
his seat and started off.

"So that's how matters lie, eh?" thought Tom. "Well, Mr. Berg, we'll be
doubly on the lookout for you after this. As for Andy Foger, I think
I'll make him wish he'd never locked me in that tank. So you expect to
find out our 'game,' eh, Mr. Berg? Well, when you do know it, I think
it will astonish you. I only hope you don't learn what it is until we
get at that sunken treasure, though."

But alas for Tom's hopes. Mr. Berg did learn of the object of the
treasure-seekers, and sought to defeat them, as we shall learn as our
story proceeds.




Chapter Six

Turning the Tables


When the young inventor informed his father what he had overheard Mr.
Berg saying, the aged inventor was not as much worried as his son
anticipated.

"All we'll have to do, Tom," he said, "is to keep quiet about where we
are going. Once we have the Advance afloat, and try her out, we can
start on our voyage for the South American Coast and search for the
sunken treasure. When we begin our voyage under water I defy any one to
tell where we are going, or what our plans are. No, I don't believe we
need worry about Mr. Berg, though he probably means mischief."

"Well, I'm going to keep my eyes open for him and Andy Foger," declared
Tom.

The days that followed were filled with work. Not only were there many
unexpected things to do about the submarine, but Mr. Sharp was kept
busy making inquiries about the sunken treasure ship. These inquiries
had to be made carefully, as the adventurers did not want their plans
talked of, and nothing circulates more quickly than rumors of an
expedition after treasure of any kind.

"What about the old sea captain you were going to get to go with us?"
asked Mr. Swift of the balloonist one afternoon.  "Have you succeeded
in finding one yet?"

"Yes; I am in communication with a man I think will be just the person
for us. His name is Captain Alden Weston, and he has sailed all over
the world. He has also taken part in more than one revolution, and, in
fact, is a soldier of fortune. I do not know him personally, but a
friend of mine knows him, and says he will serve us faithfully. I have
written to him, and he will be here in a few days."

"That's good. Now about the location of the wreck itself.  Have you
been able to learn any more details?"

"Well, not many. You see, the Boldero was abandoned in a storm, and the
captain did not take very careful observations. As nearly as it can be
figured out the treasure ship went to the bottom in latitude forty-five
degrees south, and longitude twenty-seven east from Washington. That's
a pretty indefinite location, but I hope, once we get off the Uruguay
coast, we can better it. We can anchor or lay outside the harbor, and
in the small boat we carry go ashore and possibly gain more details.
For it was at Montevideo that the shipwrecked passengers and sailors
landed."

"Does Captain Weston know our object?" inquired Tom.

"No, and I don't propose to tell him until we are ready to start,"
replied Mr. Sharp. "I don't know just how he'll consider a submarine
trip after treasure, but if I spring it on him suddenly he's less
likely to back out. Oh, I think he'll go."

Somewhat unexpectedly the next day it was discovered that certain tools
and appliances were needed for the submarine, and they had been left in
the house at Shopton, where Eradicate Sampson was in charge as
caretaker during the absence of Mr. Swift and his son and the
housekeeper.

"Well, I suppose we'll have to go back after them," remarked Tom.
"We'll take the airship, dad, and make a two-days' trip of it. Is there
anything else you want?"

"Well, you might bring a bundle of papers you'll find in the lower
right hand drawer of my desk. They contain some memoranda I need."

Tom and Mr. Sharp had become so used to traveling in the airship that
it seemed no novelty to them, though they attracted much attention
wherever they went. They soon had the Red Cloud in readiness for a
flight, and rising in the air above the shop that contained the
powerful submarine, a craft utterly different in type from the
aeroplane, the nose of the airship was pointed toward Shopton.

They made a good flight and landed near the big shed where the bird of
the air was kept. It was early evening when they got to the Swift
homestead, and Eradicate Sampson was glad to see them.

Eradicate was a good cook, and soon had a meal ready for the travelers.
Then, while Mr. Sharp selected the tools and other things needed, and
put them in the airship ready for the start back the next morning, Tom
concluded he would take a stroll into Shopton, to see if he could see
his friend, Ned Newton. It was early evening, and the close of a
beautiful day, a sharp shower in the morning having cooled the air.

Tom was greeted by a number of acquaintances as he strolled along, for,
since the episode of the bank robbery, when he had so unexpectedly
returned with the thieves and the cash, the lad was better known than
ever.

"I guess Ned must be home," thought our hero as he looked in vain for
his chum among the throng on the streets. "I've got time to take a
stroll down to his house."

Tom was about to cross the street when he was startled by the sound of
an automobile horn loudly blown just at his side. Then a voice called:

"Hey, there! Git out of the way if you don't want to be run over!"

He looked up, and saw a car careening along. At the wheel was the
red-haired bully, Andy Foger, and in the tonneau were Sam Snedecker and
Pete Bailey.

"Git out of the way," added Sam, and he grinned maliciously at Tom.

The latter stepped back, well out of the path of the car, which was not
moving very fast. Just in front of Tom was a puddle of muddy water.
There was no necessity for Andy steering into it, but he saw his
opportunity, and a moment later one of the big pneumatic tires had
plunged into the dirty fluid, spattering it all over Tom, some even
going as high as his face.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Andy. "Maybe you'll get out of my way next time, Tom
Swift."

The young inventor was almost speechless from righteous anger. He wiped
the mud from his face, glanced down at his clothes, which were all but
ruined, and called out:

"Hold on there, Andy Foger! I want to see you!" for he thought of the
time when Andy had shut him in the tank.

"Ta! ta!" shouted Pete Bailey.

"See you later," added Sam.

"Better go home and take a bath, and then sail away in your submarine,"
went on Andy. "I'll bet it will sink."

Before Tom could reply the auto had turned a corner.  Disgusted and
angry, he tried to sop up some of the muddy water with his
handkerchief. While thus engaged he heard his name called, and looked
up to see Ned Newton.

"What's the matter? Fall down?" asked his chum.

"Andy Foger," replied Tom.

"That's enough," retorted Ned. "I can guess the rest.  We'll have to
tar and feather him some day, and ride him out of town on a rail. I'd
kick him myself, only his father is a director in the bank where I
work, and I'd be fired if I did. Can't afford any such pleasure. But
some day I'll give Andy a good trouncing, and then resign before they
can discharge me. But I'll be looking for another job before I do that.
Come on to my house, Tom, and I'll help you clean up."

Tom was a little more presentable when he left his chum's residence,
after spending the evening there, but he was still burning for revenge
against Andy and his cronies. He had half a notion to go to Andy's
house and tell Mr. Foger how nearly serious the bully's prank at the
submarine had been, but he concluded that Mr. Foger could only uphold
his son. "No, I'll settle with him myself," decided Tom.

Bidding Eradicate keep a watchful eye about the house, and leaving word
for Mr. Damon to be sure to come to the coast if he again called at the
Shopton house, Tom and Mr. Sharp prepared to make their return trip
early the next morning.

The gas tank was filled and the Red Cloud arose in the air. Then, with
the propellers moving at moderate speed, the nose of the craft was
pointed toward the New Jersey coast.

A few miles out from Shopton, finding there was a contrary wind in the
upper regions where they were traveling, Mr. Sharp descended several
hundred feet. They were moving over a sparsely settled part of the
country, and looking down, Tom saw, speeding along a highway, an
automobile.

"I wonder who's in it?" he remarked, taking down a telescope and
peering over the window ledge of the cabin.  The next moment he uttered
a startled exclamation.

"Andy  Foger, Sam  Snedecker and Pete Bailey!" he cried.  "Oh, I wish I
had a bucket of water to empty on them."

"I know a better way to get even with them than that," said Mr. Sharp.

"How?" asked Tom eagerly.

"I'll show you," replied the balloonist. "It's a trick I once played on
a fellow who did me an injury. Here, you steer for a minute until I get
the thing fixed, then I'll take charge."

Mr. Sharp went to the storeroom and came back with a long, stout rope
and a small anchor of four prongs. It was carried to be used in
emergencies, but so far had never been called into requisition.
Fastening the grapple to the cable, the balloonist said:

"Now, Tom, they haven't seen you. You stand in the stern and pay out
the rope. I'll steer the airship, and what I want you to do is to catch
the anchor in the rear of their car. Then I'll show you some fun."

Tom followed instructions. Slowly he lowered the rope with the dangling
grapple. The airship was also sent down, as the cable was not quite
long enough to reach the earth from the height at which they were. The
engine was run at slow speed, so that the noise would not attract the
attention of the three cronies who were speeding along, all unconscious
of the craft in the air over their heads. The Red Cloud was moving in
the same direction as was the automobile.

The anchor was now close to the rear of Andy's car.  Suddenly it caught
on the tonneau and Tom called that fact to Mr. Sharp.

"Fasten the rope at the cleat," directed the balloonist.

Tom did so, and a moment later the aeronaut sent the airship up by
turning more gas into the container. At the same time he reversed the
engine and the Red Cloud began pulling the touring car backward, also
lifting the rear wheels clear from the earth.

A startled cry from the occupants of the machine told Tom and his
friend that Andy and his cronies were aware something was wrong. A
moment later Andy, looking up, saw the airship hovering in the air
above him. Then he saw the rope fast to his auto. The airship was not
rising now, or the auto would have been turned over, but it was slowly
pulling it backward, in spite of the fact that the motor of the car was
still going.

"Here! You let go of me!" cried Andy. "I'll have you arrested if you
damage my car."

"Come up here and cut the rope," called Tom leaning over and looking
down. He could enjoy the bully's discomfiture.  As for Sam and Pete,
they were much frightened, and cowered down on the floor of the tonneau.

"Maybe you'll shut me in the tank again and splash mud on me!" shouted
Tom.

The rear wheels of the auto were lifted still higher from the ground,
as Mr. Sharp turned on a little more gas. Andy was not proof against
this.

"Oh! oh!" he cried. "Please let me down, Tom. I'm awful sorry for what
I did! I'll never do it again! Please, please let me down! Don't! You'll
tip me over!"

He had shut off his motor now, and was frantically clinging to the
steering wheel.

"Do you admit that you're a sneak and a coward?" asked Tom, "rubbing it
in."

"Yes, yes!  Oh, please let me down!"

"Shall we?" asked Tom of Mr. Sharp.

"Yes," replied the balloonist. "We can afford to lose the rope and
anchor for the sake of turning the tables. Cut the cable."

Tom saw what was intended. Using a little hatchet, he severed the rope
with a single blow. With a crash that could be heard up in the air
where the Red Cloud hovered, the rear wheels of the auto dropped to the
ground. Then came two loud reports.

"Both tires busted!" commented Mr. Sharp dryly, and Tom, looking down,
saw the trio of lads ruefully contemplating the collapsed rubber of the
rear wheels. The tables had been effectually turned on Andy Foger. His
auto was disabled, and the airship, with a graceful sweep, mounted
higher and higher, continuing on its way to the coast.




Chapter Seven

Mr. Damon Will Go


"Well, I guess they've had their lesson," remarked Tom, as he took an
observation through the telescope and saw Andy and his cronies hard at
work trying to repair the ruptured tires. "That certainly was a corking
good trick."

"Yes," admitted Mr. Sharp modestly. "I once did something similar, only
it was a horse and wagon instead of an auto.  But let's try for another
speed record. The conditions are just right."

They arrived at the coast much sooner than they had dared to hope, the
Red Cloud proving herself a veritable wonder.

The remainder of that day, and part of the next, was spent in working
on the submarine.

"We'll launch her day after to-morrow," declared Mr. Swift
enthusiastically. "Then to see whether my calculations are right or
wrong."

"It won't be your fault if it doesn't work," said his son.  "You
certainly have done your best."

"And so have you and Mr. Sharp and the others, for that matter. Well, I
have no doubt but that everything will be all right, Tom."

"There!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp the next morning, as he was adjusting a
certain gage. "I knew I'd forget something. That special brand of
lubricating oil. I meant to bring it from Shopton, and I didn't."

"Maybe I can get it in Atlantis," suggested Tom, naming the coast city
nearest to them. "I'll take a walk over. It isn't far."

"Will you? I'll be glad to have you," resumed the balloonist. "A gallon
will be all we'll need."

Tom was soon on his way. He had to walk, as the roads were too poor to
permit him to use the motor-cycle, and the airship attracted too much
attention to use on a short trip.  He was strolling along, when from
the other side of a row of sand dunes, that lined the uncertain road to
Atlantis, he heard some one speaking. At first the tones were not
distinct, but as the lad drew nearer to the voice he heard an
exclamation.

"Bless my gold-headed cane! I believe I'm lost. He said it was out this
way somewhere, but I don't see anything of it.  If I had that Eradicate
Sampson here now I'd--bless my shoelaces I don't know what I would do
to him."

"Mr. Damon! Mr. Damon!" cried Tom. "Is that you?"

"Me? Of course it's me! Who else would it be?" answered the voice. "But
who are you. Why, bless my liver! If it isn't Tom Swift!" he cried.
"Oh, but I'm glad to see you! I was afraid I was shipwrecked! Bless my
gaiters, how are you, anyhow? How is your father? How is Mr. Sharp, and
all the rest of them?"

"Pretty well. And you?"

"Me? Oh, I'm all right; only a trifle nervous. I called at your house
in Shopton yesterday, and Eradicate told me, as well as he could, where
you were located. I had nothing to do, so I thought I'd take a run down
here. But what's this I hear about you? Are you going on a voyage?"

"Yes."

"In the air? May I go along again? I certainly enjoyed my other trip in
the Red Cloud. That is, all but the fire and being shot at. May I go?"

"We're going on a different sort of trip this time," said the youth.

"Where?"

"Under water."

"Under water?  Bless my sponge bath! You don't mean it!"

"Yes. Dad has completed the submarine he was working on when we were
off in the airship, and it will be launched the day after to-morrow."

"Oh, that's so. I'd forgotten about it. He's going to try for the
Government prize, isn't he? But tell me more about it. Bless my
scarf-pin, but I'm glad I met you! Going into town, I take it. Well, I
just came from there, but I'll walk back with you. Do you think--is
there any possibility--that I could go with you? Of course, I don't
want to crowd you, but--"

"Oh, there'll be plenty of room," replied the young inventor. "In fact,
more room than we had in the airship. We were talking only the other
day about the possibility of you going with us, but we didn't think
you'd risk it."

"Risk it? Bless my liver! Of course I'll risk it! It can't be as bad
as sailing in the air. You can't fall, that's certain."

"No; but maybe you can't rise," remarked Tom grimly.

"Oh, we won't think of that. Of course, I'd like to go. I fully
expected to be killed in the Red Cloud, but as I wasn't. I'm ready to
take a chance in the water. On the whole, I think I prefer to be buried
at sea, anyhow. Now, then, will you take me?"

"I think I can safely promise," answered Tom with a smile at his
friend's enthusiasm.

The two were approaching the city, having walked along as they talked.
There were still some sand dunes near the road, and they kept on the
side of these, nearest the beach, where they could watch the breakers.

"But you haven't told me where you are going," went on Mr. Damon, after
blessing a few dozen objects. "Where do the Government trials take
place?"

"Well," replied the lad, "to be frank with you, we have abandoned our
intention of trying for the Government prize."

"Not going to try for it? Bless my slippers! Why not?  Isn't fifty
thousand dollars worth striving for? And, with the kind of a submarine
you say you have, you ought to be able to win."

"Yes, probably we could win," admitted the young inventor, "but we are
going to try for a better prize."

"A better one? I don't understand."

"Sunken treasure," explained Tom. "There's a ship sunk off the coast of
Uruguay, with three hundred thousand dollars in gold bullion aboard.
Dad and I are going to try to recover that in our submarine. We're
going to start day after to-morrow, and, if you like, you may go along."

"Go along! Of course I'll go along!" cried the eccentric man. "But I
never heard of such a thing. Sunken treasure!  Three hundred thousand
dollars in gold! My, what a lot of money! And to go after it in a
submarine! It's as good as a story!"

"Yes, we hope to recover all the treasure," said the lad.  "We ought to
be able to claim at least half of it."

"Bless my pocketbook!" cried Mr. Damon, but Tom did not hear him. At
that instant his attention was attracted by seeing two men emerge from
behind the sand dune near which he and Mr. Damon had halted
momentarily, when the youth explained about the treasure. The man
looked sharply at Tom.  A moment later the first man was joined by
another, and at the sight of him our hero could not repress an
exclamation of alarm. For the second man was none other than Addison
Berg.

The latter glanced quickly at Tom, and then, with a hasty word to his
companion, the two swung around and made off in the opposite direction
to that in which they had been walking.

"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Damon, seeing the young inventor was
strangely affected.

"That--that man," stammered the lad.

"You don't mean to tell me that was one the Happy Harry gang, do you?"

"No. But one, or both of those men, may prove to be worse.  That second
man was Addison Berg, and he's agent for a firm of submarine boat
builders who are rivals of dad's. Berg has been trying to find out why
we abandoned our intention of competing for the Government prize."

"I hope you didn't tell him."

"I didn't intend to," replied Tom, smiling grimly, "but I'm afraid I
have, however. He certainly overheard what I said. I spoke too loud.
Yes, he must have heard me. That's why he hurried off so."

"Possibly no harm is done. You didn't give the location of the sunken
ship."

"No; but I guess from what I said it will be easy enough to find. Well,
if we're going to have a fight for the possession of that sunken gold,
I'm ready for it. The Advance is well equipped for a battle. I must
tell dad of this. It's my fault."

"And partly mine, for asking you such leading questions in a public
place," declared Mr. Damon. "Bless my coat-tails, but I'm sorry! Maybe,
after all, those men were so interested in what they themselves were
saying that they didn't understand what you said."

But if there had been any doubts on this score they would have been
dissolved had Tom and his friend been able to see the actions of Mr.
Berg and his companion a little later.  The plans of the
treasure-hunters had been revealed to their ears.




Chapter Eight

Another Treasure Expedition


While Tom and Mr. Damon continued on to Atlantis after the oil, the
young inventor lamenting from time to time that his remarks about the
real destination of the Advance had been overheard by Mr. Berg, the
latter and his companion were hastening back along the path that ran on
one side of the sand dunes.

"What's your hurry?" asked Mr. Maxwell, who was with the submarine
agent. "You turned around as if you were shot when you saw that man and
the lad. There didn't appear to be any cause for such a hurry. From
what I could hear they were talking about a submarine. You're in the
same business. You might be friends."

"Yes, we might," admitted Mr. Berg with a peculiar smile; "but, unless
I'm very much mistaken, we're going to be rivals."

"Rivals? What do you mean?"

"I can't tell you now. Perhaps I may later. But if you don't mind, walk
a little faster, please. I want to get to a long-distance telephone."

"What for?"

"I have just overheard something that I wish to communicate to my
employers, Bentley & Eagert."

"Overheard something? I don't see what it could be, unless that lad--"

"You'll learn in good time," went on the submarine agent.  "But I must
telephone at once."

A little later the two men had reached a trolley line that ran into
Atlantis, and they arrived at the city before Mr. Damon and Tom got
there, as the latter had to go by a circuitous route. Mr. Berg lost no
time in calling up his firm by telephone.

"I have had another talk with Mr. Swift," he reported to Mr. Bentley,
who came to the instrument in Philadelphia.

"Well, what does he say?" was the impatient question. "I can't
understand his not wanting to try for the Government prize. It is
astonishing. You said you were going to discover the reason, Mr Berg,
but you haven't done so."

"I have."

"What is it?"

"Well, the reason Mr. Swift and his son don't care to try for the fifty
thousand dollar prize is that they are after one of three hundred
thousand dollars."

"Three hundred thousand dollars!" cried Mr. Bentley. "What government
is going to offer such a prize as that for submarines, when they are
getting almost as common as airships? We ought to have a try for that
ourselves. What government is it?"

"No government at all. But I think we ought to have a try for it, Mr.
Bentley."

"Explain."

"Well, I have just learned, most accidentally, that the Swifts are
going after sunken treasure--three hundred thousand dollars in gold
bullion."

"Sunken treasure? Where?

"I don't know exactly, but off the coast of Uruguay," and Mr. Berg
rapidly related what he had overheard Tom tell Mr. Damon. Mr. Bentley
was much excited and impatient for more details, but his agent could
not give them to him.

"Well," concluded the senior member of the firm of submarine boat
builders, "if the Swifts are going after treasure, so can we. Come to
Philadelphia at once, Mr. Berg, and we'll talk this matter over. There
is no time to lose.  We can afford to forego the Government prize for
the chance of getting a much larger one. We have as much right to
search for the sunken gold as the Swifts have. Come here at once, and
we will make our plans."

"All right," agreed the agent with a smile as he hung up the receiver.
"I guess," he murmured to himself, "that you won't be so high and
mighty with me after this, Tom Swift.  We'll see who has the best boat,
after all. We'll have a contest and a competition, but not for a
government prize.  It will be for the sunken gold."

It was easy to see that Mr. Berg was much pleased with himself.

Meanwhile, Tom and Mr. Damon had reached Atlantis, and had purchased
the oil. They started back, but Tom took a street leading toward the
center of the place, instead of striking for the beach path, along
which they had come.

"Where are you going?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I want to see if that Andy Foger has come back here," replied the lad,
and he told of having been shut in the tank by the bully.

"I've never properly punished him for that trick," he went on, "though
we did manage to burst his auto tires. I'm curious to know how he knew
enough to turn that gear and shut the tank door. He must have been
loitering near the shop, seen me go in the submarine alone, watched his
chance and sneaked in after me. But I'd like to get a complete
explanation, and if I once got hold of Andy I could make him talk," and
Tom clenched his fist in a manner that augured no good for the
squint-eyed lad. "He was stopping at the same hotel with Mr. Berg, and
he hurried away after the trick he played on me. I next saw him in
Shopton, but I thought perhaps he might have come back here. I'm going
to inquire at the hotel," he added.

Andy's name was not on the register since his hasty flight, however,
and Tom, after inquiring from the clerk and learning that Mr. Berg was
still a guest at the hostelry, rejoined Mr. Damon.

"Bless my hat!" exclaimed that eccentric individual as they started
back to the lonely beach where the submarine was awaiting her advent
into the water. "The more I think of the trip I'm going to take, the
more I like it."

"I hope you will," remarked Tom. "It will be a new experience for all
of us. There's only one thing worrying me, and that is about Mr. Berg
having overheard what I said."

"Oh, don't worry about that. Can't we slip away and leave no trace in
the water?"

"I hope so, but I must tell dad and Mr. Sharp about what happened."

The aged inventor was not a little alarmed at what his son related, but
he agreed with Mr. Damon, whom he heartily welcomed, that little was to
be apprehended from Berg and his employers.

"They know we're after a sunken wreck, but that's all they do know,"
said Tom's father. "We are only waiting for the arrival of Captain
Alden Weston, and then we will go. Even if Bentley & Eagert make a try
for the treasure we'll have the start of them, and this will be a case
of first come, first served. Don't worry, Tom. I'm glad you're going,
Mr Damon. Come, I will show you our submarine."

As father and son, with their guest, were going to the machine shop,
Mr. Sharp met them. He had a letter in his hand.

"Good news!" the balloonist cried. "Captain Weston will be with us
to-morrow. He will arrive at the Beach Hotel in Atlantis, and wants one
of us to meet him there. He has considerable information about the
wreck."

"The Beach Hotel," murmured Tom. "That is where Mr. Berg is stopping. I
hope he doesn't worm any of our secret from Captain Weston," and it was
with a feeling of uneasiness that the young inventor continued after
his father and Mr. Damon to where the submarine was.




Chapter Nine

Captain Weston's Advent


"Bless my water ballast, but that certainly is a fine boat!" cried Mr.
Damon, when he had been shown over the new craft.  "I think I shall
feel even safer in that than in the Red Cloud."

"Oh, don't go back on the airship!" exclaimed Mr Sharp. "I was counting
on taking you on another trip."

"Well, maybe after we get back from under the ocean," agreed Mr. Damon.
"I particularly like the cabin arrangements of the Advance. I think I
shall enjoy myself."

He would be hard to please who could not take pleasure from a trip in
the submarine. The cabin was particularly fine, and the sleeping
arrangements were good.

More supplies could be carried than was possible on the airship, and
there was more room in which to cook and serve food. Mr. Damon was fond
of good living, and the kitchen pleased him as much as anything else.

Early the next morning Tom set out for Atlantis, to meet Captain Weston
at the hotel. The young inventor inquired of the clerk whether the
seafaring man had arrived, and was told that he had come the previous
evening.

"Is he in his room?" asked Tom.

"No," answered the clerk with a peculiar grin. "He's an odd character.
Wouldn't go to bed last night until we had every window in his room
open, though it was blowing quite hard, and likely to storm. The
captain said he was used to plenty of fresh air. Well, I guess he got
it, all right."

"Where is he now?" asked the youth, wondering what sort of an
individual he was to meet.

"Oh, he was up before sunrise, so some of the scrubwomen told me. They
met him coming from his room, and he went right down to the beach with
a big telescope he always carries with him. He hasn't come back yet.
Probably he's down on the sand."

"Hasn't he had breakfast?"

"No. He left word he didn't want to eat until about four bells,
whatever time that is."

"It's ten o'clock," replied Tom, who had been studying up on sea terms
lately. "Eight bells is eight o'clock in the morning, or four in the
afternoon or eight at night, according to the time of day. Then there's
one bell for every half hour, so four bells this morning would be ten
o'clock in this watch, I suppose."

"Oh, that's the way it goes, eh?" asked the clerk. "I never could get
it through my head. What is twelve o'clock noon?"

"That's eight bells, too; so is twelve o'clock midnight.  Eight bells
is as high as they go on a ship. But I guess I'll go down and see if I
can meet the captain. It will soon be ten o'clock, or four bells, and
he must be hungry for breakfast. By the way, is that Mr. Berg still
here?"

"No; he went away early this morning. He and Captain Weston seemed to
strike up quite an acquaintance, the night clerk told me. They sat and
smoked together until long after midnight, or eight bells," and the
clerk smiled as he glanced down at the big diamond ring on his little
finger.

"They did?" fairly exploded Tom, for he had visions of what the wily
Mr. Berg might worm out of the simple captain.

"Yes. Why, isn't the captain a proper man to make friends with?" and
the clerk looked at Tom curiously.

"Oh, yes, of course," was the hasty answer. "I guess I'll go and see if
I can find him--the captain, I mean."

Tom hardly knew what to think. He wished his father, or Mr. Sharp, had
thought to warn Captain Weston against talking of the wreck. It might
be too late now.

The young inventor hurried to the beach, which was not far from the
hotel. He saw a solitary figure pacing up and down, and from the fact
that the man stopped, every now and then, and gazed seaward through a
large telescope, the lad concluded it was the captain for whom he was
in search. He approached, his footsteps making no sound on the sand.
The man was still gazing through the glass.

"Captain Weston?" spoke Tom.

Without a show of haste, though the voice must have startled him, the
captain turned. Slowly he lowered the telescope, and then he replied
softly:

"That's my name. Who are you, if I may ask?"

Tom was struck, more than by anything else, by the gentle voice of the
seaman. He had prepared himself, from the description of Mr. Sharp, to
meet a gruff, bewhiskered individual, with a voice like a crosscut saw,
and a rolling gait. Instead he saw a man of medium size, with a smooth
face, merry blue eyes, and the softest voice and gentlest manner
imaginable. Tom was very much disappointed. He had looked for a regular
sea-dog, and he met a landsman, as he said afterward. But it was not
long before our hero changed his mind regarding Captain Weston.

"I'm Tom Swift," the owner of that name said, "and I have been sent to
show you the way to where our ship is ready to launch." The young
inventor refrained from mentioning submarine, as it was the wish of Mr
Sharp to disclose this feature of the voyage to the sailor himself.

"Ha, I thought as much," resumed the captain quietly.  "It's a fine
day, if I may be permitted to say so," and he seemed to hesitate, as if
there was some doubt whether or not he might make that observation.

"It certainly is," agreed the lad. Then, with a smile he added: "It is
nearly four bells."

"Ha!" exclaimed the captain, also smiling, but even his manner of
saying "Ha!" was less demonstrative than that of most persons. "I
believe I am getting hungry, if I may be allowed the remark," and again
he seemed asking Tom's pardon for mentioning the fact.

"Perhaps you will come back to the cabin and have a little breakfast
with me," he went on. "I don't know what sort of a galley or cook they
have aboard the Beach Hotel, but it can't be much worse than some I've
tackled."

"No, thank you," answered the youth. "I've had my breakfast. But I'll
wait for you, and then I'd like to get back. Dad and Mr. Sharp are
anxious to meet you."

"And I am anxious to meet them, if you don't mind me mentioning it,"
was the reply, as the captain once more put the spyglass to his eye and
took an observation. "Not many sails in sight this morning," he added.
"But the weather is fine, and we ought to get off in good shape to hunt
for the treasure about which Mr. Sharp wrote me. I believe we are going
after treasure," he said; "that is, if you don't mind talking about it."

"Not in the least," replied Tom quickly, thinking this a good
opportunity for broaching a subject that was worrying him. "Did you
meet a Mr. Berg here last night, Captain Weston?" he went on.

"Yes. Mr. Berg and I had quite a talk. He is a well-informed man."

"Did he mention the sunken treasure?" asked the lad, eager to find out
if his suspicions were true.

"Yes, he did, if you'll excuse me putting it so plainly," answered the
seaman, as if Tom might be offended at so direct a reply. But the young
inventor was soon to learn that this was only an odd habit with the
seaman.

"Did he want to know where the wreck of the Boldero was located?"
continued the lad. "That is, did he try to discover if you knew
anything about it?"

"Yes," said Mr. Weston, "he did. He pumped me, if you are acquainted
with that term, and are not offended by it. You see, when I arrived
here I made inquiries as to where your father's place was located. Mr.
Berg overheard me, and introduced himself as agent for a shipbuilding
concern. He was very friendly, and when he said he knew you and your
parent, I thought he was all right."

Tom's heart sank. His worst fears were to be realized, he thought.

"Yes, he and I talked considerable, if I may be permitted to say so,"
went on the captain. "He seemed to know about the wreck of the Boldero,
and that she had three hundred thousand dollars in gold aboard. The
only thing he didn't know was where the wreck was located. He knew it
was off Uruguay somewhere, but just where he couldn't say. So he asked
me if I knew, since he must have concluded that I was going with you on
the gold-hunting expedition."

"And you do know, don't you?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Well, I have it pretty accurately charted out, if you will allow me
that expression," was the calm answer. "I took pains to look it up at
the request of Mr. Sharp."

"And he wanted to worm that information out of you?" inquired the youth
excitedly.

"Yes, I'm afraid he did."

"Did you give him the location?"

"Well," remarked the captain, as he took another observation before
closing up the telescope, "you see, while we were talking, I happened
to drop a copy of a map I'd made, showing the location of the wreck.
Mr. Berg picked it up to hand to me, and he looked at it."

"Oh!" cried Tom. "Then he knows just where the treasure is, and he may
get to it ahead of us. It's too bad."

"Yes," continued the seaman calmly, "Mr. Berg picked up that map, and
he looked very closely at the latitude and longitude I had marked as
the location of the wreck."

"Then he won't have any trouble finding it," murmured our hero.

"Eh? What's that?" asked the captain, "if I may be permitted to request
you to repeat what you said."

"I say he won't have any trouble locating the sunken Boldero," repeated
Tom.

"Oh, but I think he will, if he depends on that map," was the
unexpected reply. "You see," explained Mr. Weston, "I'm not so simple
as I look. I sensed what Mr. Berg was after, the minute he began to
talk to me. So I fixed up a little game on him. The map which I dropped
on purpose, not accidentally, where he would see it, did have the
location of the wreck marked. Only it didn't happen to be the right
location. It was about five hundred miles out of the way, and I rather
guess if Mr. Berg and his friends go there for treasure they'll find
considerable depth of water and quite a lonesome spot. Oh, no, I'm not
as easy as I look, if you don't mind me mentioning that fact; and when
a scoundrel sets out to get the best of me, I generally try to turn the
tables on him. I've seen such men as Mr. Berg before. I'm afraid, I'm
very much afraid, the sight he had of the fake map I made won't do him
much good. Well, I declare, it's past four bells. Let's go to
breakfast, if you don't mind me asking you," and with that the captain
started off up the beach, Tom following, his ideas all a whirl at the
unlooked-for outcome of the interview.




Chapter Ten

Trial of the Submarine


Tom felt such a relief at hearing of Captain Weston's ruse that his
appetite, sharpened by an early breakfast and the sea air, came to him
with a rush, and he had a second morning meal with the odd sea captain,
who chuckled heartily when he thought of how Mr Berg had been deceived.

"Yes," resumed Captain Weston, over his bacon and eggs, "I sized him up
for a slick article as soon as I laid eyes on him. But he evidently
misjudged me, if I may be permitted that term. Oh, well, we may meet
again, after we secure the treasure, and then I can show him the real
map of the location of the wreck."

"Then you have it?" inquired the lad eagerly.

Captain Weston nodded, before hiding his face behind a large cup of
coffee; his third, by the way.

"Let me see it?" asked Tom quickly. The captain set down his cup. He
looked carefully about the hotel dining-room.  There were several
guests, who, like himself, were having a late breakfast.

"It's a good plan," the sailor said slowly, "when you're going into
unknown waters, and don't want to leave a wake for the other fellow to
follow, to keep your charts locked up. If it's all the same to you," he
added diffidently, "I'd rather wait until we get to where your father
and Mr. Sharp are before displaying the real map. I've no objection to
showing you the one Mr. Berg saw," and again he chuckled.

The young inventor blushed at his indiscretion. He felt that the news
of the search for the treasure had leaked out through him, though he
was the one to get on the trail of it by seeing the article in the
paper. Now he had nearly been guilty of another break. He realized that
he must be more cautious. The captain saw his confusion, and said:

"I know how it is. You're eager to get under way. I don't blame you. I
was the same myself when I was your age. But we'll soon be at your
place, and then I'll tell you all I know. Sufficient now, to say that I
believe I have located the wreck within a few miles. I got on the track
of a sailor who had met one of the shipwrecked crew of the Boldero, and
he gave me valuable information. Now tell me about the craft we are
going in. A good deal depends on that."

Tom hardly knew what to answer. He recalled what Mr. Sharp had said
about not wanting to tell Captain Weston, until the last moment, that
they were going in a submarine, for fear the old seaman (for he was old
in point of service though not in years) might not care to risk an
under-water trip. Therefore Tom hesitated. Seeing it, Captain Weston
remarked quietly:

"I mean, what type is your submarine? Does it go by compressed air, or
water power?"

"How do you know it's a submarine?" asked the young inventor quickly,
and in some confusion.

"Easy enough. When Mr. Berg thought he was pumping me, I was getting a
lot of information from him. He told me about the submarine his firm
was building, and, naturally, he mentioned yours. One thing led to
another until I got a pretty good idea of your craft. What do you call
it?"

"The Advance."

"Good name. I like it, if you don't mind speaking of it."

"We were afraid you wouldn't like it," commented Tom.

"What, the name?"

"No, the idea of going in a submarine."

"Oh," and Captain Weston laughed. "Well, it takes more than that to
frighten me, if you'll excuse the expression.  I've always had a
hankering to go under the surface, after so many years spent on top.
Once or twice I came near going under, whether I wanted to or not, in
wrecks, but I think I prefer your way. Now, if you're all done, and
don't mind me speaking of it, I think we'll start for your place. We
must hustle, for Berg may yet get on our trail, even if he has got the
wrong route," and he laughed again.

It was no small relief to Mr Swift and Mr. Sharp to learn that Captain
Weston had no objections to a submarine, as they feared he might have.
The captain, in his diffident manner, made friends at once with the
treasure-hunters, and he and Mr. Damon struck up quite an acquaintance.
Tom told of his meeting with the seaman, and the latter related, with
much gusto, the story of how he had fooled Mr. Berg.

"Well, perhaps you'd like to come and take a look at the craft that is
to be our home while we're beneath the water," suggested Mr. Swift and
the sailor assenting, the aged inventor, with much pride, assisted by
Tom, pointed out on the Advance the features of interest. Captain
Weston gave hearty approval, making one or two minor suggestions, which
were carried out.

"And so you launch her to-morrow," he concluded, when he had completed
the inspection "Well, I hope it's a success, if I may be permitted to
say so."

There were busy times around the machine shop next day. So much secrecy
had been maintained that none of the residents, or visitors to the
coast resort, were aware that in their midst was such a wonderful craft
as the submarine. The last touches were put on the under-water ship;
the ways, leading from the shop to the creek, were well greased, and
all was in readiness for the launching. The tide would soon be at
flood, and then the boat would slide down the timbers (at least, that
was the hope of all), and would float in the element meant to receive
her. It was decided that no one should be aboard when the launching
took place, as there was an element of risk attached, since it was not
known just how buoyant the craft was. It was expected she would float,
until the filled tanks took her to the bottom, but there was no telling.

"It will be flood tide now in ten minutes," remarked Captain Weston
quietly, looking at his watch. Then he took an observation through the
telescope. "No hostile ships hanging in the offing," he reported. "All
is favorable, if you don't mind me saying so," and he seemed afraid
lest his remark might give offense.

"Get ready," ordered Mr. Swift. "Tom, see that the ropes are all
clear," for it had been decided to ease the Advance down into the water
by means of strong cables and windlasses, as the creek was so narrow
that the submarine, if launched in the usual way, would poke her nose
into the opposite mud bank and stick there.

"All clear," reported the young inventor.

"High tide!" exclaimed the captain a moment later, snapping shut his
watch.

"Let go!" ordered Mr. Swift, and the various windlasses manned by the
inventor, Tom and the others began to unwind their ropes. Slowly the
ship slid along the greased ways.  Slowly she approached the water. How
anxiously they all watched her! Nearer and nearer her blunt nose, with
the electric propulsion plate and the auxiliary propeller, came to the
creek, the waters of which were quiet now, awaiting the turn of the
tide.

Now little waves lapped the steel sides. It was the first contact of
the Advance with her native element.

"Pay out the rope faster!" cried Mr. Swift.

The windlasses were turned more quickly. Foot by foot the craft slid
along until, with a final rush, the stern left the ways and the
submarine was afloat. Now would come the test. Would she ride on an
even keel, or sink out of sight, or turn turtle? They all ran to the
water's edge, Tom in the lead.

"Hurrah!" suddenly yelled the lad, trying to stand on his head. "She
floats! She's a success! Come on! Let's get aboard!"

For, true enough, the Advance was riding like a duck on the water. She
had been proportioned just right, and her lines were perfect. She rode
as majestically as did any ship destined to sail on the surface, and
not intended to do double duty.

"Come on, we must moor her to the pier," directed Mr. Sharp. "The tide
will turn in a few minutes and take her out to sea."

He and Tom entered a small boat, and soon the submarine was tied to a
small dock that had been built for the purpose.

"Now to try the engine," suggested Mr. Swift, who was almost trembling
with eagerness; for the completion of the ship meant much to him.

"One moment," begged Captain Weston. "If you don't mind, I'll take an
observation," he went on, and he swept the horizon with his telescope.
"All clear," he reported. "I think we may go aboard and make a trial
trip."

Little time was lost in entering the cabin and engine-room, Garret
Jackson accompanying the party to aid with the machinery. It did not
take long to start the motors, dynamos and the big gasolene engine that
was the vital part of the craft. A little water was admitted to the
tanks for ballast, since the food and other supplies were not yet on
board. The Advance now floated with the deck aft of the conning tower
showing about two feet above the surface of the creek. Mr. Swift and
Tom entered the pilot house.

"Start the engines," ordered the aged inventor, "and we'll try my new
system of positive and negative electrical propulsion."

There was a hum and whir in the body of the ship beneath the feet of
Tom and his father. Captain Weston stood on the little deck near the
conning tower.

"All ready?" asked the youth through the speaking tube to Mr. Sharp and
Mr. Jackson in the engine-room.

"All ready," came the answer.

Tom threw over the connecting lever, while his father grasped the
steering wheel. The Advance shot forward, moving swiftly along, about
half submerged.

"She goes! She goes!" cried Tom.

"She certainly does, if I may be permitted to say so," was the calm
contribution of Captain Weston. "I congratulate you."

Faster and faster went the new craft. Mr. Swift headed her toward the
open sea, but stopped just before passing out of the creek, as he was
not yet ready to venture into deep water.

"I want to test the auxiliary propellers," he said. After a little
longer trial of the electric propulsion plates, which were found to
work satisfactorily, sending the submarine up and down the creek at a
fast rate, the screws, such as are used on most submarines, were put
into gear.  They did well, but were not equal to the plates, nor was so
much expected of them.

"I am perfectly satisfied," announced Mr. Swift as he once more headed
the boat to sea. "I think, Captain Weston, you had better go below now."

"Why so?"

"Because I am going to completely submerge the craft. Tom, close the
conning tower door. Perhaps you will come in here with us, Captain
Weston, though it will be rather a tight fit."

"Thank you, I will. I want to see how it feels to be in a pilot house
under water."

Tom closed the water-tight door of the conning tower. Word was sent
through the tube to the engine-room that a more severe test of the ship
was about to be made. The craft was now outside the line of breakers
and in the open sea.

"Is everything ready, Tom?" asked his father in a quiet voice.

"Everything," replied the lad nervously, for the anticipation of being
about to sink below the surface was telling on them all, even on the
calm, old sea captain.

"Then open the tanks and admit the water," ordered Mr. Swift.

His son turned a valve and adjusted some levers. There was a hissing
sound, and the Advance began sinking. She was about to dive beneath the
surface of the ocean, and those aboard her were destined to go through
a terrible experience before she rose again.




Chapter Eleven

On the Ocean Bed


Lower and lower sank the submarine. There was a swirling and foaming of
the water as she went down, caused by the air bubbles which the craft
carried with her in her descent.  Only the top of the conning tower was
out of water now, the ocean having closed over the deck and the rounded
back of the boat. Had any one been watching they would have imagined
that an accident was taking place.

In the pilot house, with its thick glass windows, Tom, his father and
Captain Weston looked over the surface of the ocean, which every minute
was coming nearer and nearer to them.

"We'll be all under in a few seconds," spoke Tom in a solemn voice, as
he listened to the water hissing into the tanks.

"Yes, and then we can see what sort of progress we will make," added
Mr. Swift. "Everything is going fine, though," he went on cheerfully.
"I believe I have a good boat."

"There is no doubt of it in my mind," remarked Captain Weston, and Tom
felt a little disappointed that the sailor did not shout out some such
expression as "Shiver my timbers!" or "Keel-haul the main braces,
there, you lubber!" But Captain Weston was not that kind of a sailor,
though his usually quiet demeanor could be quickly dropped on
necessity, as Tom learned later.

A few minutes more and the waters closed over the top of the conning
tower. The Advance was completely submerged.  Through the thick glass
windows of the pilot house the occupants looked out into the greenish
water that swirled about them; but it could not enter. Then, as the
boat went lower, the light from above gradually died out, and the
semi-darkness gave place to gloom.

"Turn on the electrics and the searchlight, Tom," directed his father.

There was the click of a switch, and the conning tower was flooded with
light. But as this had the effect of preventing the three from peering
out into the water, just as one in a lighted room cannot look out into
the night, Tom shut them off and switched on the great searchlight.
This projected its powerful beams straight ahead and there, under the
ocean, was a pathway of illumination for the treasure-seekers.

"Fine!" cried Captain Weston, with more enthusiasm than he had yet
manifested. "That's great, if you don't mind me mentioning it. How deep
are we?"

Tom glanced at a gage on the side of the pilot tower.

"Only about sixty feet," he answered.

"Then don't go any deeper!" cried the captain hastily. "I know these
waters around here, and that's about all the depth you've got. You'll
be on the bottom in a minute."

"I intend to get on the bottom after a while," said Mr. Swift, "but not
here. I want to try for a greater distance under water before I come to
rest on the ocean's bed. But I think we are deep enough for a test.
Tom, close the tank intake pipes and we'll see how the Advance will
progress when fully submerged."

The hissing stopped, and then, wishing to see how the motors and other
machinery would work, the aged inventor and his son, accompanied by
Captain Weston, descended from the conning tower, by means of an inner
stairway, to the interior of the ship. The submarine could be steered
and managed from below or above. She was now floating about sixty-five
feet below the surface of the bay.

"Well, how do you like it?" asked Tom of Mr. Damon, as he saw his
friend in an easy chair in the living-room or main cabin of the craft,
looking out of one of the plate-glass windows on the side.

"Bless my spectacles, it's the most wonderful thing I ever dreamed of!"
cried the queer character, as he peered at the mass of water before
him. "To think that I'm away down under the surface, and yet as dry as
a bone. Bless my necktie, but it's great! What are we going to do now?"

"Go forward," replied the young inventor.

"Perhaps I had better make an observation," suggested Captain Weston,
taking his telescope from under his arm, where he had carried it since
entering the craft, and opening it. "We may run afoul of something, if
you don't mind me mentioning such a disagreeable subject." Then, as he
thought of the impossibility of using his glass under water, he closed
it.

"I shall have little use for this here, I'm afraid," he remarked with a
smile. "Well, there's some consolation.  We're not likely to meet many
ships in this part of the ocean. Other vessels are fond enough of
remaining on the surface. I fancy we shall have the depths to
ourselves, unless we meet a Government submarine, and they are hardly
able to go as deep as we can. No, I guess we won't run into anything
and I can put this glass away."

"Unless we run into Berg and his crowd," suggested Tom in a low voice.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Captain Weston, for he did not want Mr. Swift to
worry over the unscrupulous agent. "No, I don't believe we'll meet
them, Tom. I guess Berg is trying to work out the longitude and
latitude I gave him. I wish I could see his face when he realizes that
he's been deceived by that fake map."

"Well, I hope he doesn't discover it too soon and trail us," went on
the lad. "But they're going to start the machinery now. I suppose you
and I had better take charge of the steering of the craft. Dad will
want to be in the engine-room."

"All right," replied the captain, and he moved forward with the lad to
a small compartment, shut off from the living-room, that served as a
pilot house when the conning tower was not used. The same levers,
wheels and valves were there as up above, and the submarine could be
managed as well from there as from the other place.

"Is everything all right?" asked Mr Swift as he went into the
engine-room, where Garret Jackson and Mr. Sharp were busy with oil cans.

"Everything," replied the balloonist. "Are you going to start now?"

"Yes, we're deep enough for a speed trial. We'll go out to sea,
however, and try for a lower depth record, as soon as there's enough
water. Start the engine."

A moment later the powerful electric currents were flowing into the
forward and aft plates, and the Advance began to gather way, forging
through the water.

"Straight ahead, out to sea, Tom," called his father to him.

"Aye, aye, sir," responded the youth.

"Ha! Quite seaman-like, if you don't mind a reference to it," commented
Captain Weston with a smile. "Mind your helm, boy, for you don't want
to poke her nose into a mud bank, or run up on a shoal."

"Suppose you steer?" suggested the lad. "I'd rather take lessons for a
while."

"All right. Perhaps it will be safer. I know these waters from the top,
though I can't say as much for the bottom.  However, I know where the
shoals are."

The powerful searchlight was turned, so as to send its beams along the
path which the submarine was to follow, and then, as she gathered
speed, she shot ahead, gliding through the waters like a fish.

Mr. Damon divided his time between the forward pilot-room, the
living-apartment, and the place where Mr. Swift, Garret Jackson and Mr.
Sharp were working over the engines. Every few minutes he would bless
some part of himself, his clothing, or the ship. Finally the old man
settled down to look through the plate-glass windows in the main
apartment.

On and on went the submarine. She behaved perfectly, and was under
excellent control. Some times Tom, at the request of his father, would
send her toward the surface by means of the deflecting rudder. Then she
would dive to the bottom again. Once, as a test, she was sent obliquely
to the surface, her tower just emerging, and then she darted downward
again, like a porpoise that had come up to roll over, and suddenly
concluded to seek the depths. In fact, had any one seen the maneuver
they would have imagined the craft was a big fish disporting itself.

Captain Weston remained at Tom's side, giving him instructions, and
watching the compass in order to direct the steering so as to avoid
collisions. For an hour or more the craft was sent almost straight
ahead at medium speed.  Then Mr. Swift, joining his son and the
captain, remarked:

"How about depth of water here, Captain Weston?"

"You've got more than a mile."

"Good! Then I'm going down to the bottom of the sea! Tom, fill the
tanks still more.

"Aye, aye, sir," answered the lad gaily. "Now for a new experience!"

"And use the deflecting rudder, also," advised his father.  "That will
hasten matters."

Five minutes later there was a slight jar noticeable.

"Bless my soul! What's that?" cried Mr. Damon. "Have we hit something?"

"Yes," answered Tom with a smile.

"What, for gracious sake?"

"The bottom of the sea. We're on the bed of the ocean."




Chapter Twelve

For a Breath of Air


They could hardly realize it, yet the depth-gage told the story. It
registered a distance below the surface of the ocean of five thousand
seven hundred feet--a little over a mile. The Advance had actually come
to rest on the bottom of the Atlantic.

"Hurrah!" cried Tom. "Let's get on the diving suits, dad, and walk
about on land under water for a change."

"No," said Mr. Swift soberly. "We will hardly have time for that now.
Besides, the suits are not yet fitted with the automatic air-tanks, and
we can't use them. There are still some things to do before we start on
our treasure cruise.  But I want to see how the plates are standing
this pressure."

The Advance was made with a triple hull, the spaces between the layers
of plates being filled with a secret material, capable of withstanding
enormous pressure, as were also the plates themselves. Mr. Swift, aided
by Mr. Jackson and Captain Weston, made a thorough examination, and
found that not a drop of water had leaked in, nor was there the least
sign that any of the plates had given way under the terrific strain.

"She's as tight as a drum, if you will allow me to make that
comparison," remarked Captain Weston modestly. "I couldn't ask for a
dryer ship."

"Well, let's take a look around by means the searchlight and the
observation windows, and then we'll go back," suggested Mr. Swift. "It
will take about two days to get the stores and provisions aboard and
rig up the diving suits; then we will start for the sunken treasure."

There were several powerful searchlights on the Advance, so arranged
that the bow, stern or either side could be illuminated independently.
There were also observation windows near each light.

In turn the powerful rays were cast first at the bow and then aft. In
the gleams could be seen the sandy bed of the ocean, covered with
shells of various kinds. Great crabs walked around on their long,
jointed legs, and Tom saw some lobsters that would have brought joy to
the heart of a fisherman.

"Look at the big fish!" cried Mr. Damon suddenly, and he pointed to
some dark, shadowy forms that swam up to the glass windows, evidently
puzzled by the light.

"Porpoises," declared Captain Weston briefly, "a whole school of them."

The fish seemed suddenly to multiply, and soon those in the submarine
felt curious tremors running through the whole craft.

"The fish are rubbing up against it," cried Tom. "They must think we
came down here to allow them to scratch their backs on the steel
plates."

For some time they remained on the bottom, watching the wonderful sight
of the fishes that swam all about them.

"Well, I think we may as well rise," announced Mr. Swift, after they
had been on the bottom about an hour, moving here and there. "We didn't
bring any provisions, and I'm getting hungry, though I don't know how
the others of you feel about it."

"Bless my dinner-plate, I could eat, too!" cried Mr. Damon. "Go up, by
all means. We'll get enough of under-water travel once we start for the
treasure."

"Send her up, Tom," called his father. "I want to make a few notes on
some needed changes and improvements."

Tom entered the lower pilot house, and turned the valve that opened the
tanks. He also pulled the lever that started the pumps, so that the
water ballast would be more quickly emptied, as that would render the
submarine buoyant, and she would quickly shoot to the surface. To the
surprise of the lad, however, there followed no outrushing of the
water. The Advance remained stationary on the ocean bed. Mr. Swift
looked up from his notes.

"Didn't you hear me ask you to send her up, Tom?" he inquired mildly.

"I did, dad, but something seems to be the matter," was the reply.

"Matter? What do you mean?" and the aged inventor hastened to where his
son and Captain Weston were at the wheels, valves and levers.

"Why, the tanks won't empty, and the pumps don't seem to work."

"Let me try," suggested Mr. Swift, and he pulled the various handles.
There was no corresponding action of the machinery.

"That's odd," he remarked in a curious voice "Perhaps something has
gone wrong with the connections. Go look in the engine-room, and ask
Mr. Sharp if everything is all right there."

Tom made a quick trip, returning to report that the dynamos, motors and
gas engine were running perfectly.

"Try to work the tank levers and pumps from the conning tower,"
suggested Captain Weston. "Sometimes I've known the steam steering gear
to play tricks like that."

Tom hurried up the circular stairway into the tower. He pulled the
levers and shifted the valves and wheels there.  But there was no
emptying of the water tanks. The weight and pressure of water in them
still held the submarine on the bottom of the sea, more than a mile
from the surface. The pumps in the engine-room were working at top
speed, but there was evidently something wrong in the connections.  Mr.
Swift quickly came to this conclusion.

"We must repair it at once," he said. "Tom, come to the engine-room.
You and I, with Mr. Jackson and Mr. Sharp, will soon have it in shape
again."

"Is there any danger?" asked Mr. Damon in a perturbed voice. "Bless my
soul, it's unlucky to have an accident on our trial trip."

"Oh, we must expect accidents," declared Mr. Swift with a smile. "This
is nothing."

But it proved to be more difficult than he had imagined to re-establish
the connection between the pumps and the tanks. The valves, too, had
clogged or jammed, and as the pressure outside the ship was so great,
the water would not run out of itself. It must be forced.

For an hour or more the inventor, his son and the others, worked away.
They could accomplish nothing. Tom looked anxiously at his parent when
the latter paused in his efforts.

"Don't worry," advised the aged inventor. "It's got to come right
sooner or later."

Just then Mr. Damon, who had been wandering about the ship, entered the
engine-room.

"Do you know," he said, "you ought to open a window, or something."

"Why, what's the matter?" asked Tom quickly, looking to see if the odd
man was joking.

"Well, of course I don't exactly mean a window," explained Mr. Damon,
"but we need fresh air."

"Fresh air!" There was a startled note in Mr. Swift's voice as he
repeated the words.

"Yes, I can hardly breathe in the living-room, and it's not much better
here."

"Why, there ought to be plenty of fresh air," went on the inventor. "It
is renewed automatically."

Tom jumped up and looked at an indicator. He uttered a startled cry.

"The air hasn't been changed in the last hour!" he exclaimed. "It is
bad. There's not enough oxygen in it. I notice it, now that I've
stopped working. The gage indicates it, too. The automatic air-changer
must have stopped working. I'll fix it."

He hurried to the machine which was depended on to supply fresh air to
the submarine.

"Why, the air tanks are empty!" the young inventor cried.  "We haven't
any more air except what is in the ship now!"

"And we're rapidly breathing that up," added Captain Weston solemnly.

"Can't you make more?" cried Mr. Damon. "I thought you said you could
make oxygen aboard the ship."

"We can," answered Mr. Swift, "but I did not bring along a supply of
the necessary chemicals. I did not think we would be submerged long
enough for that. But there should have been enough in the reserve tank
to last several days. How about it, Tom?"

"It's all leaked out, or else it wasn't filled," was the despairing
answer. "All the air we have is what's in the ship, and we can't make
more."

The treasure-seekers looked at each other. It was an awful situation.

"Then the only thing to do is to fix the machinery and rise to the
surface," said Mr. Sharp simply. "We can have all the air we want,
then."

"Yes, but the machinery doesn't seem possible of being fixed," spoke
Tom in a low voice.

"We must do it!" cried his father.

They set to work again with fierce energy, laboring for their very
lives. They all knew that they could not long remain in the ship
without oxygen. Nor could they desert it to go to the surface, for the
moment they left the protection of the thick steel sides the terrible
pressure of the water would kill them. Nor were the diving suits
available. They must stay in the craft and die a miserable death--unless
the machinery could be repaired and the Advance sent to the surface.
The emergency expanding lifting tank was not yet in working order.

More frantically they toiled, trying every device that was suggested to
the mechanical minds of Tom, his father, Mr. Sharp or Mr. Jackson, to
make the pumps work. But something was wrong. More and more foul grew
the air. They were fairly gasping now. It was  difficult to breathe, to
say nothing of working, in that atmosphere. The thought of their
terrible position was in the minds of all.

"Oh, for one breath of fresh air!" cried Mr. Damon, who seemed to
suffer more than any of the others. Grim death was hovering around
them, imprisoned as they were on the ocean's bed, over a mile from the
surface.




Chapter Thirteen

Off for the Treasure


Suddenly Tom, after a moment's pause, seized a wrench and began
loosening some nuts.

"What are you doing?" asked his father faintly, for he was being
weakened by the vitiated atmosphere.

"I'm going to take this valve apart," replied his son. "We haven't
looked there for the trouble. Maybe it's out of order."

He attacked the valve with energy, but his hands soon lagged. The lack
of oxygen was telling on him. He could no longer work quickly.

"I'll help," murmured Mr. Sharp thickly. He took a wrench, but no
sooner had he loosened one nut than he toppled over.  "I'm all in," he
murmured feebly.

"Is he dead?" cried Mr. Damon, himself gasping.

"No, only fainted. But he soon will be dead, and so will all of us, if
we don't get fresh air," remarked Captain Weston. "Lie down on the
floor, every one. There is a little fairly good air there. It's heavier
than the air we've breathed, and we can exist on it for a little
longer. Poor Sharp was so used to breathing the rarified air of high
altitudes that he can't stand this heavy atmosphere."

Mr. Damon was gasping worse than ever, and so was Mr. Swift. The
balloonist lay an inert heap on the floor, with Captain Weston trying
to force a few drops of stimulant down his throat.

With a fierce determination in his heart, but with fingers that almost
refused to do his bidding, Tom once more sought to open the big valve.
He felt sure the trouble was located there, as they had tried to locate
it in every other place without avail.

"I'll help," said Mr. Jackson in a whisper. He, too, was hardly able to
move.

More and more devoid of oxygen grew the air. It gave Tom a sense as if
his head was filled, and ready to burst with every breath he drew.
Still he struggled to loosen the nuts.  There were but four more now,
and he took off three while Mr. Jackson removed one. The young inventor
lifted off the valve cover, though it felt like a ton weight to him. He
gave a glance inside.

"Here's the trouble!" he murmured. "The valve's clogged.  No wonder it
wouldn't work. The pumps couldn't force the water out."

It was the work of only a minute to adjust the valve. Then Tom and the
engineer managed to get the cover back on.

How they inserted the bolts and screwed the nuts in place they never
could remember clearly afterward, but they managed it somehow, with
shaking, trembling hands and eyes that grew more and more dim.

"Now start the pumps!" cried Tom faintly. "The tanks will be emptied,
and we can get to the surface."

Mr. Sharp was still unconscious, nor was Mr. Swift able to help. He lay
with his eyes closed. Garret Jackson, however, managed to crawl to the
engine-room, and soon the clank of machinery told Tom that the pumps
were in motion. The lad staggered to the pilot house and threw the
levers over. An instant later there was the hissing of water as it
rushed from the ballast tanks. The submarine shivered, as though
disliking to leave the bottom of the sea, and then slowly rose. As the
pumps worked more rapidly, and the sea was sent from the tank in great
volumes, the boat fairly shot to the surface. Tom was ready to open the
conning tower and let in fresh air as soon as the top was above the
surface.

With a bound the Advance reached the top. Tom frantically worked the
worm gear that opened the tower. In rushed the fresh, life-giving air,
and the treasure-hunters filled their lungs with it.

And it was only just in time, for Mr. Sharp was almost gone. He quickly
revived, as did the others, when they could breathe as much as they
wished of the glorious oxygen.

"That was a close call," commented Mr. Swift. "We'll not go below again
until I have provided for all emergencies. I should have seen to the
air tanks and the expanding one before going below. We'll sail home on
the surface now."

The submarine was put about and headed for her dock. On the way she
passed a small steamer, and the passengers looked down in wonder at the
strange craft.

When the Advance reached the secluded creek where she had been
launched, her passengers had fully recovered from their terrible
experience, though the nerves of Mr. Swift and Mr. Damon were not at
ease for some days thereafter.

"I should never have made a submerged test without making sure that we
had a reserve supply of air," remarked the aged inventor. "I will not
be caught that way again. But I can't understand how the pump valve got
out of order."

"Maybe some one tampered with it," suggested Mr. Damon.  "Could Andy
Foger, any of the Happy Harry gang, or the rival gold-seekers have done
it?"

"I hardly think so," answered Tom. "The place has been too carefully
guarded since Berg and Andy once sneaked in. I think it was just an
accident, but I have thought of a plan whereby such accidents can be
avoided in the future. It needs a simple device."

"Better patent it," suggested Mr. Sharp with a smile.

"Maybe I will," replied the young inventor. "But not now.  We haven't
time, if we intend to get fitted out for our trip."

"No; I should say the sooner we started the better," remarked Captain
Weston. "That is, if you don't mind me speaking about it," he added
gently, and the others smiled, for his diffident comments were only a
matter of habit.

The first act of the adventurers, after tying the submarine at the
dock, was to proceed with the loading of the food and supplies. Tom and
Mr. Damon looked to this, while Mr. Swift and Mr. Sharp made some
necessary changes to the machinery. The next day the young inventor
attached his device to the pump valve, and the loading of the craft was
continued.

All was in readiness for the gold-seeking expedition a week later.
Captain Weston had carefully charted the route they were to follow, and
it was decided to move along on the surface for the first day, so as to
get well out to sea before submerging the craft. Then it would sink
below the surface, and run along under the water until the wreck was
reached, rising at times, as needed, to renew the air supply.

With sufficient stores and provisions aboard to last several months, if
necessary, though they did not expect to be gone more than sixty days
at most, the adventurers arose early one morning and went down to the
dock. Mr. Jackson was not to accompany them. He did not care about a
submarine trip, he said, and Mr. Swift desired him to remain at the
seaside cottage and guard the shops, which contained much valuable
machinery. The airship was also left there.

"Well, are we all ready?" asked Mr. Swift of the little party of
gold-seekers, as they were about to enter the conning tower hatchway of
the submarine.

"All ready, dad," responded his son.

"Then let's get aboard," proposed Captain Weston. "But first let me
take an observation."

He swept the horizon with his telescope, and Tom noticed that the
sailor kept it fixed on one particular spot for some time.

"Did you see anything?" asked the lad.

"Well, there is a boat lying off there," was the answer.  "And some one
is observing us through a glass. But I don't believe it matters.
Probably they're only trying to see what sort of an odd fish we are."

"All aboard, then," ordered Mr. Swift, and they went into the
submarine. Tom and his father, with Captain Weston, remained in the
conning tower. The signal was given, the electricity flowed into the
forward and aft plates, and the Advance shot ahead on the surface.

The sailor raised his telescope once more and peered through a window
in the tower. He uttered an exclamation.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom.

"That other ship--a small steamer--is weighing anchor and seems to be
heading this way," was the reply.

"Maybe it's some one hired by Berg to follow us and trace our
movements," suggested Tom.

"If it is we'll fool them," added his father. "Just keep an eye on
them, captain, and I think we can show them a trick or two in a few
minutes."

Faster shot the Advance through the water. She had started on her way
to get the gold from the sunken wreck, but already enemies were on the
trail of the adventurers, for the ship the sailor had noticed was
steaming after them.




Chapter Fourteen

In the Diving Suits


There was no doubt that the steamer was coming after the submarine.
Several observations Captain Weston made confirmed this, and he
reported the fact to Mr. Swift.

"Well, we'll change our plans, then," said the inventor.  "Instead of
sailing on the surface we'll go below. But first let them get near so
they may have the benefit of seeing what we do. Tom, go below, please,
and tell Mr. Sharp to get every thing in readiness for a quick descent.
We'll slow up a bit now, and let them get nearer to us."

The speed of the submarine was reduced, and in a short time the strange
steamer had overhauled her, coming to within hailing distance.

Mr. Swift signaled for the machinery to stop and the submarine came to
a halt on the surface, bobbing about like a half-submerged bottle. The
inventor opened a bull's-eye in the tower, and called to a man on the
bridge of the steamer:

"What are you following us for?"

"Following you?" repeated the man, for the strange vessel had also come
to a stop. "We're not following you."

"It looks like it," replied Mr. Swift. "You'd better give it up."

"I guess the waters are free," was the quick retort.  "We'll follow you
if we like."

"Will you? Then come on!" cried the inventor as he quickly closed the
heavy glass window and pulled a lever. An instant later the submarine
began to sink, and Mr. Swift could not help laughing as, just before
the tower went under water, he had a glimpse of the astonished face of
the man on the bridge. The latter had evidently not expected such a
move as that.

Lower and lower in the water went the craft, until it was about two
hundred feet below the surface. Then Mr. Swift left the conning tower,
descended to the main part of the ship, and asked Tom and Captain
Weston to take charge of the pilot house.

"Send her ahead, Tom," his father said. "That fellow up above is
rubbing his eyes yet, wondering where we are, I suppose."

Forward shot the Advance under water, the powerful electrical plates
pulling and pushing her on the way to secure the sunken gold.

All that morning a fairly moderate rate of speed was maintained, as it
was thought best not to run the new machinery too fast.

Dinner was eaten about a quarter of a mile below the surface, but no
one inside the submarine would ever have known it. Electric lights made
the place as brilliant as could be desired, and the food, which Tom and
Mr. Damon prepared, was equal to any that could have been served on
land. After the meal they opened the shutters over the windows in the
sides of the craft, and looked at the myriads of fishes swimming past,
as the creatures were disclosed in the glare of the searchlight.

That night they were several hundred miles on their journey, for the
craft was speedy, and leaving Tom and Captain Weston to take the first
watch, the others went to bed.

"Bless my soul, but it does seem odd, though, to go to bed under water,
like a fish," remarked Mr. Damon. "If my wife knew this she would worry
to death. She thinks I'm off automobiling. But this isn't half as
dangerous as riding in a car that's always getting out of order. A
submarine for mine, every time."

"Wait until we get to the end of this trip," advised Tom.  "I guess
you'll find almost as many things can happen in a submarine as can in
an auto," and future events were to prove the young inventor to be
right.

Everything worked well that night, and the ship made good progress.
They rose to the surface the next morning to make sure of their
position, and to get fresh air, though they did not really need the
latter, as the reserve supply had not been drawn on, and was sufficient
for several days, now that the oxygen machine had been put in running
order.

On the second day the ship was sent to the bottom and halted there, as
Mr. Swift wished to try the new diving suits. These were made of a new,
light, but very strong metal to withstand the pressure of a great depth.

Tom, Mr. Sharp and Captain Weston donned the suits, the others agreeing
to wait until they saw how the first trial resulted. Then, too, it was
necessary for some one acquainted with the machinery to remain in the
ship to operate the door and water chamber through which the divers had
to pass to get out.

The usual plan, with some changes, was followed in letting the three
out of the boat, and on to the bottom of the sea.  They entered a
chamber in the side of the submarine, water was gradually admitted
until it equaled in pressure that outside, then an outer door was
opened by means of levers, and they could step out.

It was a curious sensation to Tom and the others to feel that they were
actually walking along the bed of the ocean.  All around them was the
water, and as they turned on the small electric lights in their
helmets, which lights were fed by storage batteries fastened to the
diving suits, they saw the fish, big and little, swarm up to them,
doubtless astonished at the odd creatures which had entered their
domain. On the sand of the bottom, and in and out among the shells and
rocks, crawled great spider crabs, big eels and other odd creatures
seldom seen on the surface of the water.  The three divers found no
difficulty in breathing, as there were air tanks fastened to their
shoulders, and a constant supply of oxygen was fed through pipes into
the helmets. The pressure of water did not bother them, and after the
first sensation Tom began to enjoy the novelty of it. At first the
inability to speak to his companions seemed odd, but he soon got so he
could make signs and motions, and be understood.

They walked about for some time, and once the lad came upon a part of a
wrecked vessel buried deep in the sand.  There was no telling what ship
it was, nor how long it had been there, and after silently viewing it,
they continued on.

"It was great!" were the first words Tom uttered when he and the others
were once more inside the submarine and had removed the suits. "If we
can only walk around the wreck of the Boldero that way, we'll have all
the gold out of her in no time. There are no life-lines nor air-hose to
bother with in these diving suits."

"They certainly are a success," conceded Mr. Sharp.

"Bless my topknot!" cried Mr. Damon. "I'll try it next time. I've
always wanted to be a diver, and now I have the chance."

The trip was resumed after the diving chamber had been closed, and on
the third day Captain Weston announced, after a look at his chart, that
they were nearing the Bahama Islands.

"We'll have to be careful not to run into any of the small keys," he
said, that being the name for the many little points of land, hardly
large enough to be dignified by the name of island. "We must keep a
constant lookout."

Fortune favored them, though once, when Tom was steering, he narrowly
avoided ramming a coral reef with the submarine.  The searchlight
showed it to him just in time, and he sheered off with a thumping in
his heart.

The course was changed from south to east, so as to get ready to swing
out of the way of the big shoulder of South America where Brazil takes
up so much room, and as they went farther and farther toward the
equator, they noticed that the waters teemed more and more with fish,
some beautiful, some ugly and fear-inspiring, and some such monsters
that it made one shudder to look at them, even through the thick glass
of the bulls-eye windows.




Chapter Fifteen

At the Tropical Island


It was on the evening of the fourth day later that Captain Weston, who
was steering the craft, suddenly called out:

"Land ho!"

"Where away?" inquired Tom quickly, for he had read that this was the
proper response to make.

"Dead ahead," answered the sailor with a smile. "Shall we make for it,
if I may be allowed the question?"

"What land is it likely to be?" Mr. Swift wanted to know.

"Oh, some small tropical island," replied the seafaring man. "It isn't
down on the charts. Probably it's too small to note. I should say it
was a coral island, but we may be able to find a spring of fresh water
there, and some fruit."

"Then we'll land there," decided the inventor. "We can use some fresh
water, though our distilling and ice apparatus does very well."

They made the island just at dusk, and anchored in a little lagoon,
where there was a good depth of water.

"Now for shore!" cried Tom, as the submarine swung around on the chain.
"It looks like a fine place. I hope there are cocoanuts and oranges
here. Shall I get out the electric launch, dad?"

"Yes, you may, and we'll all go ashore. It will do us good to stretch
our legs a bit."

Carried in a sort of pocket on the deck of the submarine was a small
electric boat, capable of holding six. It could be slid from the
pocket, or depression, into the water without the use of davits, and,
with Mr. Sharp to aid him, Tom soon had the little craft afloat. The
batteries were already charged, and just as the sun was going down the
gold-seekers entered the launch and were soon on shore.

They found a good spring of water close at hand, and Tom's wish
regarding the cocoanuts was realized, though there were no oranges. The
lad took several of the delicious nuts, and breaking them open poured
the milk into a collapsible cup he carried, drinking it eagerly. The
others followed his example, and pronounced it the best beverage they
had tasted in a long time.

The island was a typical tropical one, not very large, and it did not
appear to have been often visited by man. There were no animals to be
seen, but myriads of birds flew here and there amid the trees, the
trailing vines and streamers of moss.

"Let's spend a day here to-morrow and explore it," proposed Tom, and
his father nodded an assent. They went back to the submarine as night
was beginning to gather, and in the cabin, after supper, talked over
the happenings of their trip so far.

"Do you think we'll have any trouble getting the gold out of the
wrecked vessel?" asked Tom of Captain Weston, after a pause.

"Well, it's hard to say. I couldn't learn just how the wreck lays,
whether it's on a sandy or a rocky bottom. If the latter, it won't be
so hard, but if the sand has worked in and partly covered it, we'll
have some difficulties, if I may be permitted to say so. However, don't
borrow trouble.  We're not there yet, though at the rate we're
traveling it won't be long before we arrive."

No watch was set that night, as it was not considered necessary. Tom
was the first to arise in the morning, and he went out on the deck for
a breath of fresh air before breakfast.

He looked off at the beautiful little island, and as his eye took in
all of the little lagoon where the submarine was anchored he uttered a
startled cry.

And well he might, for, not a hundred yards away, and nearer to the
island than was the Advance, floated another craft--another craft,
almost similar in shape and size to the one built by the Swifts. Tom
rubbed his eyes to make sure he was not seeing double. No, there could
be no mistake about it. There was another submarine at the tropical
island.

As he looked, some one emerged from the conning tower of the second
craft. The figure seemed strangely familiar. Tom knew in a moment who
it was--Addison Berg. The agent saw the lad, too, and taking off his
cap and making a mocking bow, he called out:

"Good morning! Have you got the gold yet?"

Tom did not know what to answer. Seeing the other submarine, at an
island where he had supposed they would not be disturbed, was
disconcerting enough, but to be greeted by Berg was altogether too
much, Tom thought. His fears that the rival boat builders would follow
had not been without foundation.

"Rather surprised to see us, aren't you?" went on Mr. Berg, smiling.

"Rather," admitted Tom, choking over the word.

"Thought you'd be," continued Berg. "We didn't expect to meet you so
soon, but we're glad we did. I don't altogether like hunting for sunken
treasure, with such indefinite directions as I have."

"You--are going to--" stammered Tom, and then he concluded it would be
best not to say anything. But his talk had been heard inside the
submarine. His father came to the foot of the conning tower stairway.

"To whom are you speaking, Tom?" he asked.

"They're here, dad," was the youth's answer.

"Here? Who are here?"

"Berg and his employers. They've followed us, dad."




Chapter Sixteen

"We'll Race You For It"


Mr. Swift hurried up on deck. He was accompanied by Captain Weston. At
the sight of Tom's father, Mr. Berg, who had been joined by two other
men, called out:

"You see we also concluded to give up the trial for the Government
prize, Mr. Swift. We decided there was more money in something else.
But we still will have a good chance to try the merits of our
respective boats. We hurried and got ours fitted up almost as soon as
you did yours, and I think we have the better craft."

"I don't care to enter into any competition with you," said Mr. Swift
coldly.

"Ah, but I'm afraid you'll have to, whether you want to or not," was
the insolent reply.

"What's that?  Do you mean to force this matter upon me?"

"I'm afraid I'll have to--my employers and I, that is. You see, we
managed to pick up your trail after you left the Jersey coast, having
an idea where you were bound, and we don't intend to lose you now."

"Do you mean to follow us?" asked Captain Weston softly.

"Well, you can put it that way if you like," answered one of the two
men with Mr. Berg.

"I forbid it!" cried Mr. Swift hotly. "You have no right to sneak after
us."

"I guess the ocean is free," continued the rascally agent.

"Why do you persist in keeping after us?" inquired the aged inventor,
thinking it well to ascertain, if possible, just how much the men knew.

"Because we're after that treasure as well as you," was the bold reply.
"You have no exclusive right to it. The sunken ship is awaiting the
first comer, and whoever gets there first can take the gold from the
wreck. We intend to be there first, but we'll be fair with you."

"Fair? What do you mean?" demanded Tom.

"This: We'll race you for it. The first one to arrive will have the
right to search the wreck for the gold bullion. Is that fair? Do you
agree to it?"

"We agree to nothing with you," interrupted Captain Weston, his usual
diffident manner all gone. "I happen to be in partial command of this
craft, and I warn you that if I find you interfering with us it won't
be healthy for you.  I'm not fond of fighting, but when I begin I don't
like to stop," and he smiled grimly. "You'd better not follow us."

"We'll do as we please," shouted the third member of the trio on the
deck of the other boat, which, as Tom could see, was named the Wonder.
"We intend to get that gold if we can."

"All right. I've warned you," went on the sailor, and then, motioning
to Tom and his father to follow, he went below.

"Well, what's to be done?" asked Mr. Swift when they were seated in the
living-room, and had informed the others of the presence of the rival
submarine.

"The only thing I see to do is to sneak away unobserved, go as deep as
possible, and make all haste for the wreck," advised the captain. "They
will depend on us, for they have evidently no chart of the wreck,
though of course the general location of it may be known to them from
reading the papers. I hoped I had thrown them off the track by the
false chart I dropped, but it seems they were too smart for us."

"Have they a right to follow us?" asked Tom.

"Legally, but not morally. We can't prevent them, I'm afraid. The only
thing to do is to get there ahead of them.  It will be a race for the
sunken treasure, and we must get there first."

"What do you propose doing, captain?" asked Mr. Damon.  "Bless my
shirt-studs, but can't we pull their ship up on the island and leave it
there?"

"I'm afraid such high-handed proceedings would hardly answer," replied
Mr. Swift. "No, as Captain Weston says, we must get there ahead of
them. What do you think will be the best scheme, captain?"

"Well, there's no need for us to forego our plan to get fresh water.
Suppose we go to the island, that is, some of us, leaving a guard on
board here. We'll fill our tanks with fresh water, and at night we'll
quietly sink below the surface and speed away."

They all voted that an excellent idea, and little time was lost putting
it into operation.

All the remainder of that day not a sign of life was visible about the
Wonder. She lay inert on the surface of the lagoon, not far away from
the Advance; but, though no one showed himself on the deck, Tom and his
friends had no doubt but that their enemies were closely watching them.

As dusk settled down over the tropical sea, and as the shadows of the
trees on the little island lengthened, those on board the Advance
closed the Conning tower. No lights were turned on, as they did not
want their movements to be seen, but Tom, his father and Mr. Sharp took
their positions near the various machines and apparatus, ready to open
the tanks and let the submarine sink to the bottom, as soon as it was
possible to do this unobserved.

"Luckily there's no moon," remarked Captain Weston, as he took his
place beside Tom. "Once below the surface and we can defy them to find
us. It is odd how they traced us, but I suppose that steamer gave them
the clue."

It rapidly grew dark, as it always does in the tropics, and when a
cautious observation from the conning tower did not disclose the
outlines of the other boat, those aboard the Advance rightly concluded
that their rivals were unable to see them.

"Send her down, Tom," called his father, and with a hiss the water
entered the tanks. The submarine quickly sank below the surface, aided
by the deflecting rudder.

But alas for the hopes of the gold-seekers. No sooner was she
completely submerged, with the engine started so as to send her out of
the lagoon and to the open sea, than the waters all about were made
brilliant by the phosphorescent phenomenon. In southern waters this
frequently occurs.  Millions of tiny creatures, which, it is said,
swarm in the warm currents, give an appearance of fire to the ocean,
and any object moving through it can plainly be seen. It was so with
the Advance. The motion she made in shooting forward, and the
undulations caused by her submersion, seemed to start into activity the
dormant phosphorus, and the submarine was afloat in a sea of fire.

"Quick!" cried Tom. "Speed her up! Maybe we can get out of this patch
of water before they see us."

But it was too late. Above them they could hear the electric siren of
the Wonder as it was blown to let them know that their escape had been
noticed. A moment later the water, which acted as a sort of
sounding-board, or telephone, brought to the ears of Tom Swift and his
friends the noise of the engines of the other craft in operation.  She
was coming after them. The race for the possession of three hundred
thousand dollars in gold was already under way. Fate seemed against
those on board the Advance.




Chapter Seventeen

The Race


Directed by Captain Weston, who glanced at the compass and told him
which way to steer to clear the outer coral reef, Tom sent the
submarine ahead, signaling for full speed to the engine-room, where his
father and Mr. Sharp were. The big dynamos purred like great cats, as
they sent the electrical energy into the forward and aft plates,
pulling and pushing the Advance forward. On and on she rushed under
water, but ever as she shot ahead the disturbance in the phosphorescent
water showed her position plainly. She would be easy to follow.

"Can't you get any more speed out of her?" asked the captain of the lad.

"Yes," was the quick reply; "by using the auxiliary screws I think we
can. I'll try it."

He signaled for the propellers, forward and aft, to be put in
operation, and the motor moving the twin screws was turned on. At once
there was a perceptible increase to the speed of the Advance.

"Are we leaving them behind?" asked Tom anxiously, as he glanced at the
speed gage, and noted that the submarine was now about five hundred
feet below the surface.

"Hard to tell," replied the Captain. "You'd have to take an observation
to make sure."

"I'll do it," cried the youth. "You steer, please, and I'll go in the
conning tower. I can look forward and aft there, as well as straight
up. Maybe I can see the Wonder."

Springing up the circular ladder leading into the tower, Tom glanced
through the windows all about the small pilot house. He saw a curious
sight. It was as if the submarine was in a sea of yellowish liquid
fire. She was immersed in water which glowed with the flames that
contained no heat.  So light was it, in fact, that there was no need of
the incandescents in the tower. The young inventor could have seen to
read a paper by the illumination of the phosphorus.  But he had
something else to do than observe this phenomenon. He wanted to see if
he could catch sight of the rival submarine.

At first he could make out nothing save the swirl and boiling of the
sea, caused by the progress of the Advance through it. But suddenly, as
he looked up, he was aware of some great, black body a little to the
rear and about ten feet above his craft.

"A shark!" he exclaimed aloud. "An immense one, too."

But the closer he looked the less it seemed like a shark.  The position
of the black object changed. It appeared to settle down, to be
approaching the top of the conning tower.  Then, with a suddenness that
unnerved him for the time being, Tom recognized what it was; it was the
underside of a ship. He could see the plates riveted together, and
then, as he noted the rounded, cylindrical shape, he knew that it was a
submarine. It was the Wonder. She was close at hand and was creeping up
on the Advance. But, what was more dangerous, she seemed to be slowly
settling in the water.  Another moment and her great screws might crash
into the Conning tower of the Swifts' boat and shave it off. Then the
water would rush in, drowning the treasure-seekers like rats in a trap.

With a quick motion Tom yanked over the lever that allowed more water
to flow into the ballast tanks. The effect was at once apparent. The
Advance shot down toward the bottom of the sea. At the same time the
young inventor signaled to Captain Weston to notify those in the
engine-room to put on a little more speed. The Advance fairly leaped
ahead, and the lad, looking up through the bull's-eye in the roof of
the conning tower, had the satisfaction of seeing the rival submarine
left behind.

The youth hurried down into the interior of the ship to tell what he
had seen, and explain the reason for opening the ballast tanks. He
found his father and Mr. Sharp somewhat excited over the unexpected
maneuver of the craft.

"So they're still following us," murmured Mr. Swift. "I don't see why
we can't shake them off."

"It's on account of this luminous water," explained Captain Weston.
"Once we are clear of that it will be easy, I think, to give them the
slip. That is, if we can get out of their sight long enough. Of course,
if they keep close after us, they can pick us up with their
searchlight, for I suppose they carry one."

"Yes," admitted the aged inventor, "they have as strong a one as we
have. In fact, their ship is second only to this one in speed and
power. I know, for Bentley & Eagert showed me some of the plans before
they started it, and asked my opinion. This was before I had the notion
of building a submarine. Yes, I am afraid we'll have trouble getting
away from them."

"I can't understand this phosphorescent glow keeping up so long,"
remarked Captain Weston. "I've seen it in this locality several times,
but it never covered such an extent of the ocean in my time.  There
must be changed conditions here now."

For an hour or more the race was kept up, and the two submarines forged
ahead through the glowing sea. The Wonder remained slightly above and
to the rear of the other, the better to keep sight of her, and though
the Advance was run to her limit of speed, her rival could not be
shaken off.  Clearly the Wonder was a speedy craft.

"It's too bad that we've got to fight them, as well as run the risk of
lots of other troubles which are always present when sailing under
water," observed Mr Damon, who wandered about the submarine like the
nervous person he was. "Bless my shirt-studs! Can't we blow them up, or
cripple them in some way? They have no right to go after our treasure."

"Well, I guess they've got as much right as we have," declared Tom. "It
goes to whoever reaches the wreck first.  But what I don't like is
their mean, sneaking way of doing it. If they went off on their own
hook and looked for it I wouldn't say a word. But they expect us to
lead them to the wreck, and then they'll rob us if they can. That's not
fair."

"Indeed, it isn't," agreed Captain Weston, "if I may be allowed the
expression. We ought to find some way of stopping them. But, if I'm not
mistaken," he added quickly, looking from one of the port bull's-eyes,
"the phosphorescent glow is lessening. I believe we are running beyond
that part of the ocean."

There was no doubt of it, the glow was growing less and less, and ten
minutes later the Advance was speeding along through a sea as black as
night. Then, to avoid running into some wreck, it was necessary to turn
on the searchlight.

"Are they still after us?" asked Mr. Swift of his son, as he emerged
from the engine-room, where he had gone to make some adjustments to the
machinery, with the hope of increasing the speed.

"I'll go look," volunteered the lad. He climbed up into the conning
tower again, and for a moment, as he gazed back into the black waters
swirling all about, he hoped that they had lost the Wonder. But a
moment later his heart sank as he caught sight, through the liquid
element, of the flickering gleams of another searchlight, the rays
undulating through the sea.

"Still following," murmured the young inventor. "They're not going to
give up. But we must make 'em--that's all."

He went down to report what he had seen, and a consultation was held.
Captain Weston carefully studied the charts of that part of the ocean,
and finding that there was a great depth of water at hand, proposed a
series of evolutions.

"We can go up and down, shoot first to one side and then to the other,"
he explained. "We can even drop down to the bottom and rest there for a
while. Perhaps, in that way, we can shake them off."

They tried it. The Advance was sent up until her conning tower was out
of the water, and then she was suddenly forced down until she was but a
few feet from the bottom. She darted to the left, to the right, and
even doubled and went back over the course she had taken. But all to no
purpose.  The Wonder proved fully as speedy, and those in her seemed to
know just how to handle the submarine, so that every evolution of the
Advance was duplicated. Her rival could not be shaken off.

All night this was kept up, and when morning came, though only the
clocks told it, for eternal night was below the surface, the rival
gold-seekers were still on the trail.

"They won't give up," declared Mr. Swift hopelessly.

"No, we've got to race them for it, just as Berg proposed," admitted
Tom. "But if they want a straightaway race we'll give it to 'em. Let's
run her to the limit, dad."

"That's what we've been doing, Tom."

"No, not exactly, for we've been submerged a little too much to get the
best speed out of our craft. Let's go a little nearer the surface, and
give them the best race they'll ever have."

Then the race began; and such a contest of speed as it was! With her
propellers working to the limit, and every volt of electricity that was
available forced into the forward and aft plates, the Advance surged
through the water, about ten feet below the surface. But the Wonder
kept after her, giving her knot for knot. The course of the leading
submarine was easy to trace now, in the morning light which penetrated
ten feet down.

"No use," remarked Tom again, when, after two hours, the Wonder was
still close behind them. "Our only chance is that they may have a
breakdown."

"Or run out of air, or something like that," added Captain Weston.
"They are crowding us pretty close. I had no idea they could keep up
this speed. If they don't look out," he went on as he looked from one
of the aft observation windows, "they'll foul us, and--"

His remarks were interrupted by a jar to the Advance. She seemed to
shiver and careened to one side. Then came another bump.

"Slow down!" cried the captain, rushing toward the pilot house.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom, as he threw the engines and electrical
machines out of gear. "Have we hit anything?"

"No. Something has hit us," cried the captain. "Their submarine has
rammed us."

"Rammed us!" repeated Mr. Swift. "Tom, run out the electric cannon!
They're trying to sink us! We'll have to fight them. Run out the stern
electric gun and we'll make them wish they'd not followed us."




Chapter Eighteen

The Electric Gun


There was much  excitement aboard the Advance. The submarine came to a
stop in the water, while the treasure-seekers waited anxiously for what
was to follow. Would they be rammed again? This time, stationary as
they were, and with the other boat coming swiftly on, a hole might be
stove through the Advance, in spite of her powerful sides.

They had not long to wait. Again there came a jar, and once more the
Swifts' boat careened. But the blow was a glancing one and,
fortunately, did little damage.

"They certainly must be trying to sink us," agreed Captain Weston.
"Come, Tom, we'll take a look from the stern and see what they're up
to."

"And get the stern electric gun ready to fire," repeated Mr. Swift. "We
must protect ourselves. Mr. Sharp and I will go to the bow. There is no
telling what they may do. They're desperate, and may ram us from in
front."

Tom and the captain hurried aft. Through the thick plate-glass windows
they could see the blunt nose of the Wonder not far away, the rival
submarine having come to a halt.  There she lay, black and silent, like
some monster fish waiting to devour its victim.

"There doesn't appear to be much damage done back here," observed Tom.
"No leaks. Guess they didn't puncture us."

"Perhaps it was due to an accident that they rammed us," suggested the
captain.

"Well, they wouldn't have done it if they hadn't followed us so close,"
was the opinion of the young inventor.  "They're taking too many
chances. We've got to stop 'em."

"What is this electric gun your father speaks of?"

"Why, it's a regular electric cannon. It fires a solid ball, weighing
about twenty-five pounds, but instead of powder, which would hardly do
under water, and instead of compressed air, which is used in the
torpedo tubes of the Government submarines, we use a current of
electricity. It forces the cannon ball out with great energy."

"I wonder what they will do next?" observed the captain, peering
through a bull's eye.

"We can soon tell," replied the youth. "We'll go ahead, and if they try
to follow I'm going to fire on them."

"Suppose you sink them?"

"I won't fire to do that; only to disable them. They brought it on
themselves. We can't risk having them damage us. Help me with the
cannon, will you please, captain?"

The electric cannon was a long, steel tube in the after part of the
submarine. It projected a slight distance from the sides of the ship,
and by an ingenious arrangement could be swung around in a ball and
socket joint, thus enabling it to shoot in almost any direction.

It was the work of but a few minutes to get it ready and, with the
muzzle pointing toward the Wonder, Tom adjusted the electric wires and
inserted the solid shot.

"Now we're prepared for them!" he cried. "I think a good plan will be
to start ahead, and if they try to follow to fire on them. They've
brought it on themselves."

"Correct," spoke Captain Weston.

Tom hurried forward to tell his father of this plan.

"We'll do it!" cried Mr. Swift. "Go ahead, Mr. Sharp, and we'll see if
those scoundrels will follow."

The young inventor returned on the run to the electric cannon. There
was a whir of machinery, and the Advance moved forward. She increased
her speed, and the two watchers in the stern looked anxiously out of
the windows to see what their rivals would do.

For a moment no movement was noticeable on the part of the Wonder.
Then, as those aboard her appeared to realize that the craft on which
they depended to pilot them to the sunken treasure was slipping away,
word was given to follow. The ship of Berg and his employers shot after
the Advance.

"Here they come!" cried Captain Weston. "They're going to ram us again!"

"Then I'm going to fire on them!" declared Tom savagely.

On came the Wonder, nearer and nearer. Her speed was rapidly
increasing. Suddenly she bumped the Advance, and then, as if it was an
unavoidable accident, the rear submarine sheered off to one side.

"They're certainly at it again!" cried Tom, and peering from the
bull's-eye he saw the Wonder shoot past the mouth of the electric
cannon. "Here it goes!" he added.

He shoved over the lever, making the proper connection.  There was no
corresponding report, for the cannon was noiseless, but there was a
slight jar as the projectile left the muzzle. The Wonder could be seen
to heel over.

"You hit her! You hit her!" cried Captain Weston. "A good shot!"

"I was afraid she was past me when I pulled the lever," explained Tom.
"She went like a flash."

"No, you caught her on the rudder," declared the captain.  "I think
you've put her out of business. Yes, they're rising to the surface."

The lad rapidly inserted another ball, and recharged the cannon. Then
he peered out into the water, illuminated by the light of day overhead,
as they were not far down. He could see the Wonder rising to the
surface. Clearly something had happened.

"Maybe they're going to drop down on us from above, and try to sink
us," suggested the youth, while he stood ready to fire again. "If they
do--"

His words were interrupted by a slight jar throughout the submarine.

"What was that?" cried the captain.

"Dad fired the bow gun at them, but I don't believe he hit them,"
answered the young inventor.

"I wonder what damage I did? Guess we'll go to the surface to find out."

Clearly the Wonder had given up the fight for the time being. In fact,
she had no weapon with which to respond to a fusillade from her rival.
Tom hastened forward and informed his father of what had happened.

"If her steering gear is out of order, we may have a chance to slip
away," said Mr. Swift "We'll go up and see what we can learn."

A few minutes later Tom, his father and Captain Weston stepped from the
conning tower, which was out of water, on to the little flat deck a
short distance away lay the Wonder, and on her deck was Berg and a
number of men, evidently members of the crew.

"Why did you fire on us?" shouted the agent angrily.

"Why did you follow us?" retorted Tom.

"Well, you've broken our rudder and disabled us," went on Berg, not
answering the question. "You'll suffer for this!  I'll have you
arrested."

"You only got what you deserved," added Mr. Swift. "You were acting
illegally, following us, and you tried to sink us by ramming my craft
before we retaliated by firing on you."

"It was an accident, ramming you," said Berg. "We couldn't help it. I
now demand that you help us make repairs."

"Well, you've got nerve!" cried Captain Weston, his eyes flashing. "I'd
like to have a personal interview with you for about ten minutes. Maybe
something besides your ship would need repairs then."

Berg turned away, scowling, but did not reply. He began directing the
crew what to do about the broken rudder.

"Come on," proposed Tom in a low voice, for sounds carry very easily
over water. "Let's go below and skip out while we have a chance. They
can't follow now, and we can get to the sunken treasure ahead of them."

"Good advice," commented his father. "Come, Captain Weston, we'll go
below and close the conning tower."

Five minutes later the Advance sank from sight, the last glimpse Tom
had of Berg and his men being a sight of them standing on the deck of
their floating boat, gazing in the direction of their successful rival.
The Wonder was left behind, while Tom and his friends were soon once
more speeding toward the treasure wreck.




Chapter Nineteen

Captured


"Down deep," advised Captain Weston, as he stood beside Tom and Mr.
Swift in the pilot house. "As far as you can manage her, and then
forward. We'll take no more chances with these fellows."

"The only trouble is," replied the young inventor, "that the deeper we
go the slower we have to travel. The water is so dense that it holds us
back."

"Well, there is no special need of hurrying now," went on the sailor.
"No one is following you, and two or three days difference in reaching
the wreck will not amount to anything."

"Unless they repair their rudder, and take after us again," suggested
Mr. Swift.

"They're not very likely to do that," was the captain's opinion. "It
was more by luck than good management that they picked us up before.
Now, having to delay, as they will, to repair their steering gear,
while we can go as deep as we please and speed ahead, it is practically
impossible for them to catch up to us. No, I think we have nothing to
fear from them."

But though danger from Berg and his crowd was somewhat remote, perils
of another sort were hovering around the treasure-seekers, and they
were soon to experience them.

It was much different from sailing along in the airship, Tom thought,
for there was no blue sky and fleecy clouds to see, and they could not
look down and observe, far below them, cities and villages. Nor could
they breathe the bracing atmosphere of the upper regions.

But if there was lack of the rarefied air of the clouds, there was no
lack of fresh atmosphere. The big tanks carried a large supply, and
whenever more was needed the oxygen machine would supply it.

As there was no need, however, of remaining under water for any great
stretch of time, it was their practice to rise every day and renew the
air supply, also to float along on the surface for a while, or speed
along, with only the conning tower out, in order to afford a view, and
to enable Captain Weston to take observations. But care was always
exercised to make sure no ships were in sight when emerging on the
surface, for the gold-seekers did not want to be hailed and questioned
by inquisitive persons.

It was about four days after the disabling of the rival submarine, and
the Advance was speeding along about a mile and a half under water. Tom
was in the pilot house with Captain Weston, Mr. Damon was at his
favorite pastime of looking out of the glass side windows into the
ocean and its wonders, and Mr. Swift and the balloonist were, as
usual, in the engine-room.

"How near do you calculate we are to the sunken wreck?" asked Tom of
his companion.

"Well, at the calculation we made yesterday, we are within about a
thousand miles of it now. We ought to reach it in about four more days,
if we don't have any accidents."

"And how deep do you think it is?" went on the lad.

"Well, I'm afraid it's pretty close to two miles, if not more. It's
quite a depth, and of course impossible for ordinary divers to reach.
But it will be possible in this submarine and in the strong diving
suits your father has invented for us to get to it. Yes, I don't
anticipate much trouble in getting out the gold, once we reach the
wreck of course--"

The captain's remark was not finished. From the engine-room there came
a startled shout:

"Tom! Tom! Your father is hurt! Come here, quick!"

"Take the wheel!" cried the lad to the captain. "I must go to my
father." It was Mr. Sharp's voice he had heard.

Racing to the engine-room, Tom saw his parent doubled up over a dynamo,
while to one side, his hand on a copper switch, stood Mr. Sharp.

"What's the matter?" shouted the lad.

"He's held there by a current of electricity," replied the balloonist.
"The wires are crossed."

"Why don't you shut off the current?" demanded the youth, as he
prepared to pull his parent from the whirring machine.  Then he
hesitated, for he feared he, too, would be glued fast by the terrible
current, and so be unable to help Mr. Swift.

"I'm held fast here, too," replied the balloonist. "I started to cut
out the current at this switch, but there's a short circuit somewhere,
and I can't let go, either. Quick, shut off all power at the main
switchboard forward."

Tom realized that this was the only thing to do. He ran forward and
with a yank cut out all the electric wires. With a sigh of relief Mr.
Sharp pulled his hands from the copper where he had been held fast as
if by some powerful magnet, his muscles cramped by the current.
Fortunately the electricity was of low voltage, and he was not burned.
The body of Mr. Swift toppled backward from the dynamo, as Tom sprang
to reach his father.

"He's dead!" he cried, as he saw the pale face and the closed eyes.

"No, only badly shocked, I hope," spoke Mr. Sharp. "But we must get him
to the fresh air at once. Start the tank pumps.  We'll rise to the
surface."

The youth needed no second bidding. Once more turning on the electric
current, he set the powerful pumps in motion and the submarine began to
rise. Then, aided by Captain Weston and Mr. Damon, the young inventor
carried his father to a couch in the main cabin. Mr. Sharp took charge
of the machinery.

Restoratives were applied, and there was a flutter of the eyelids of
the aged inventor.

"I think he'll come around all right," said the sailor kindly, as he
saw Tom's grief. "Fresh air will be the thing for him. We'll be on the
surface in a minute."

Up shot the Advance, while Mr. Sharp stood ready to open the conning
tower as soon as it should be out of water. Mr. Swift seemed to be
rapidly reviving. With a bound the submarine, forced upward from the
great depth, fairly shot out of the water. There was a clanking sound
as the aeronaut opened the airtight door of the tower, and a breath of
fresh air came in.

"Can you walk, dad, or shall we carry you?" asked Tom solicitously.

"Oh, I--I'm feeling better now," was the inventor's reply.  "I'll soon
be all right when I get out on deck. My foot slipped as I was adjusting
a wire that had gotten out of order, and I fell so that I received a
large part of the current. I'm glad I was not burned. Was Mr. Sharp
hurt? I saw him run to the switch, just before I lost consciousness."

"No, I'm all right," answered the balloonist. "But allow us to get you
out to the fresh air. You'll feel much better then."

Mr. Swift managed to walk slowly to the ladder leading to the conning
tower, and thence to the deck. The others followed him. As all emerged
from the submarine they uttered a cry of astonishment.

There, not one hundred yards away, was a great warship, flying a flag
which, in a moment, Tom recognized as that of Brazil. The cruiser was
lying off a small island, and all about were small boats, filled with
natives, who seemed to be bringing supplies from land to the ship. At
the unexpected sight of the submarine, bobbing up from the bottom of
the ocean, the natives uttered cries of fright.  The attention of those
on the warship was attracted, and the bridge and rails were lined with
curious officers and men.

"It's a good thing we didn't come up under that ship," observed Tom.
"They would have thought we were trying to torpedo her. Do you feel
better, dad?" he asked, his wonder over the sight of the big vessel
temporarily eclipsed in his anxiety for his parent.

"Oh, yes, much better. I'm all right now. But I wish we hadn't
disclosed ourselves to these people. They may demand to know where we
are going, and Brazil is too near Uruguay to make it safe to tell our
errand. They may guess it, however, from having read of the wreck, and
our departure."

"Oh, I guess it will be all right," replied Captain Weston. "We can
tell them we are on a pleasure trip. That's true enough. It would give
us great pleasure to find that gold."

"There's a boat, with some officers in it, to judge by the amount of
gold lace on them, putting off from the ship," remarked Mr. Sharp.

"Ha! Yes! Evidently they intend to pay us a formal visit," observed Mr.
Damon. "Bless my gaiters, though. I'm not dressed to receive company. I
think I'll put on my dress suit."

"It's too late," advised Tom. "They'll be here in a minute."

Urged on by the lusty arms of the Brazilian sailors, the boat,
containing several officers, neared the floating submarine rapidly.

"Ahoy there!" called an officer in the bow, his accent betraying his
unfamiliarity with the English language. "What craft are you?"

"Submarine, Advance, from New Jersey," replied Tom. "Who are you?"

"Brazilian cruiser San Paulo," was the reply. "Where are you bound?"
went on the officer.

"On pleasure," answered Captain Weston quickly. "But why do you ask? We
are an American ship, sailing under American colors. Is this Brazilian
territory?"

"This island is--yes," came back the answer, and by this time the small
boat was at the side of the submarine. Before the adventurers could
have protested, had they a desire to do so, there were a number of
officers and the crew of the San Paulo on the small deck.

With a flourish, the officer who had done the questioning drew his
sword. Waving it in the air with a dramatic gesture, he exclaimed:

"You're our prisoners! Resist and my men shall cut you down like dogs!
Seize them, men!"

The sailors sprang forward, each one stationing himself at the side of
one of our friends, and grasping an arm.

"What does this mean?" cried Captain Weston indignantly.  "If this is a
joke, you're carrying it too far. If you're in earnest, let me warn you
against interfering with Americans!"

"We know what we are doing," was the answer from the officer.

The sailor who had hold of Captain Weston endeavored to secure a
tighter grip. The captain turned suddenly, and seizing the man about
the waist, with an exercise of tremendous strength hurled him over his
head and into the sea, the man making a great splash.

"That's the way I'll treat any one else who dares lay a hand on me!"
shouted the captain, who was transformed from a mild-mannered
individual into an angry, modern giant. There was a gasp of
astonishment at his feat, as the ducked sailor crawled back into the
small boat. And he did not again venture on the deck of the submarine.

"Seize them, men!" cried the gold-laced officer again, and this time he
and his fellows, including the crew, crowded so closely around Tom and
his friends that they could do nothing. Even Captain Weston found it
impossible to offer any resistance, for three men grabbed hold of him
but his spirit was still a fighting one, and he struggled desperately
but uselessly.

"How dare you do this?" he cried.

"Yes," added Tom, "what right have you to interfere with us?"

"Every right," declared the gold-laced officer.

"You are in Brazilian territory, and I arrest you."

"What for?" demanded Mr. Sharp.

"Because your ship is an American submarine, and we have received word
that you intend to damage our shipping, and may try to torpedo our
warships. I believe you tried to disable us a little while ago, but
failed. We consider that an act of war and you will be treated
accordingly. Take them on board the San Paulo," the officer went on,
turning to his aides. "We'll try them by court-marital here. Some of
you remain and guard this submarine. We will teach these filibustering
Americans a lesson."




Chapter Twenty

Doomed to Death


There was no room on the small deck of the submarine to make a stand
against the officers and crew of the Brazilian warship. In fact, the
capture of the gold-seekers had been effected so suddenly that their
astonishment almost deprived them of the power to think clearly.

At another command from the officer, who was addressed as Admiral
Fanchetti, several of the sailors began to lead Tom and his friends
toward the small boat.

"Do you feel all right, father?" inquired the lad anxiously, as he
looked at his parent. "These scoundrels have no right to treat us so."

"Yes, Tom, I'm all right as far as the electric shock is concerned, but
I don't like to be handled in this fashion."

"We ought not to submit!" burst out Mr. Damon. "Bless the stars and
stripes! We ought to fight."

"There's no chance," said Mr. Sharp. "We are right under the guns of
the ship. They could sink us with one shot. I guess we'll have to give
in for the time being."

"It is most unpleasant, if I may be allowed the expression," commented
Captain Weston mildly. He seemed to have lost his sudden anger, but
there was a steely glint in his eyes, and a grim, set look around his
month that showed his temper was kept under control only by an effort.
It boded no good to the sailors who had hold of the doughty captain if
he should once get loose, and it was noticed that they were on their
guard.

As for Tom, he submitted quietly to the two Brazilians who had hold of
either arm, and Mr. Swift was held by only one, for it was seen that he
was feeble.

"Into the boat with them!" cried Admiral Fanchetti. "And guard them
well, Lieutenant Drascalo, for I heard them plotting to escape," and
the admiral signaled to a younger officer, who was in charge of the men
guarding the prisoners.

"Lieutenant Drascalo, eh?" murmured Mr. Damon. "I think they made a
mistake naming him. It ought to be Rascalo. He looks like a rascal."

"Silenceo!" exclaimed the lieutenant, scowling at the odd character.

"Bless my spark plug! He's a regular fire-eater!" went on Mr. Damon,
who appeared to have fully recovered his spirits.

"Silenceo!" cried the lieutenant, scowling again, but Mr. Damon did not
appear to mind.

Admiral Fanchetti and several others of the gold-laced officers
remained aboard the submarine, while Tom and his friends were hustled
into the small boat and rowed toward the warship.

"I hope they don't damage our craft," murmured the young inventor, as
he saw the admiral enter the conning tower.

"If they do, we'll complain to the United States consul and demand
damages," said Mr. Swift.

"I'm afraid we won't have a chance to communicate with the consul,"
remarked Captain Weston.

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my shoelaces, but will
these scoundrels--"

"Silenceo!" cried Lieutenant Drascalo quickly. "Dogs of Americans, do
you wish to insult us?"

"Impossible; you wouldn't appreciate a good, genuine United States
insult," murmured Tom under his breath.

"What I mean," went on the captain, "is that these people may carry the
proceedings off with a high hand. You heard the admiral speak of a
court-martial."

"Would they dare do that?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"They would dare anything in this part of the world, I'm afraid,"
resumed Captain Weston. "I think I see their plan, though. This admiral
is newly in command; his uniform shows that. He wants to make a name for
himself, and he seizes on our submarine as an excuse. He can send word
to his government that he destroyed a torpedo craft that sought to
wreck his ship. Thus he will acquire a reputation."

"But would his government support him in such a hostile act against the
United States, a friendly nation?" asked Tom.

"Oh, he would not claim to have acted against the United States as a
power. He would say that it was a private submarine, and, as a matter
of fact, it is. While we are under the protection of the stars and
stripes, our vessel is not a Government one," and Captain Weston spoke
the last in a low voice, so the scowling lieutenant could not hear.

"What will they do with us?" inquired Mr. Swift.

"Have some sort of a court-martial, perhaps," went on the captain, "and
confiscate our craft. Then they will send us back home, I expect for
they would not dare harm us."

"But take our submarine!" cried Tom. "The villains--"

"Silenceo!" shouted Lieutenant Drascalo and he drew his sword.

By this time the small boat was under the big guns of the San Paulo,
and the prisoners were ordered, in broken English, to mount a companion
ladder that hung over the side. In a short time they were on deck, amid
a crowd of sailors, and they could see the boat going back to bring off
the admiral, who signaled from the submarine. Tom and his friends were
taken below to a room that looked like a prison, and there, a little
later, they were visited by Admiral Fanchetti and several officers.

"You will be tried at once," said the admiral. "I have examined your
submarine and I find she carries two torpedo tubes. It is a wonder you
did not sink me at once."

"Those are not torpedo tubes!" cried Tom, unable to keep silent, though
Captain Weston motioned him to do so.

"I know torpedo tubes when I see them," declared the admiral. "I
consider I had a very narrow escape. Your country is fortunate that
mine does not declare war against it for this act. But I take it you
are acting privately, for you fly no flag, though you claim to be from
the United States."

"There's no place for a flag on the submarine," went on Tom. "What good
would it be under water?"

"Silenceo!" cried Lieutenant Drascalo, the admonition to silence
seeming to be the only command of which he was capable.

"I shall confiscate your craft for my government," went on the admiral,
"and shall punish you as the court-martial may direct. You will be
tried at once."

It was in vain for the prisoners to protest. Matters were carried with
a high hand. They were allowed a spokesman, and Captain Weston, who
understood Spanish, was selected, that language being used. But the
defense was a farce, for he was scarcely listened to. Several officers
testified before the admiral, who was judge, that they had seen the
submarine rise out of the water, almost under the prow of the San
Paulo. It was assumed that the Advance had tried to wreck the warship,
but had failed. It was in vain that Captain Weston and the others told
of the reason for their rapid ascent from the ocean depths--that Mr.
Swift had been shocked, and needed fresh air. Their story was not
believed.

"We have heard enough!" suddenly exclaimed the admiral.  "The evidence
against you is over-whelming--er--what you Americans call conclusive,"
and he was speaking then in broken English. "I find you guilty, and the
sentence of this court-martial is that you be shot at sunrise, three
days hence!"

"Shot!" cried Captain Weston, staggering back at this unexpected
sentence. His companions turned white, and Mr. Swift leaned against his
son for support.

"Bless my stars! Of all the scoundrelly!" began Mr. Damon.

"Silenceo!" shouted the lieutenant, waving his sword.

"You will be shot," proceeded the admiral. "Is not that the verdict of
the honorable court?" he asked, looking at his fellow officers. They
all nodded gravely.

"But look here!" objected Captain Weston. "You don't dare do that! We
are citizens of the United States, and--"

"I consider you no better than pirates," interrupted the admiral. "You
have an armed submarine--a submarine with torpedo tubes. You invade our
harbor with it, and come up almost under my ship. You have forfeited
your right to the protection of your country, and I have no fear on
that score. You will be shot within three days. That is all.  Remove
the prisoners."

Protests were in vain, and it was equally useless to struggle. The
prisoners were taken out on deck, for which they were thankful, for the
interior of the ship was close and hot, the weather being intensely
disagreeable. They were told to keep within a certain space on deck,
and a guard of sailors, all armed, was placed near them. From where
they were they could see their submarine floating on the surface of the
little bay, with several Brazilians on the small deck. The Advance had
been anchored, and was surrounded by a flotilla of the native boats,
the brown-skinned paddlers gazing curiously at the odd craft.

"Well, this is tough luck!" murmured Tom. "How do you feel, dad?"

"As well as can be expected under the circumstances," was the reply.
"What do you think about this, Captain Weston?"

"Not very much, if I may be allowed the expression," was the answer.

"Do you think they will dare carry out that threat?" asked Mr. Sharp.

The captain shrugged his shoulders. "I hope it is only a bluff," he
replied, "made to scare us so we will consent to giving up the
submarine, which they have no right to confiscate. But these fellows
look ugly enough for anything," he went on.

"Then if there's any chance of them attempting to carry it out," spoke
Tom, "we've got to do something."

"Bless my gizzard, of course!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "But what? That's
the question. To be shot! Why, that's a terrible threat! The villains--"

"Silenceo!" shouted Lieutenant Drascalo, coming up at that moment.




Chapter Twenty-One

The Escape


Events had happened so quickly that day that the gold-hunters could
scarcely comprehend them. It seemed only a short time since Mr. Swift
had been discovered lying disabled on the dynamo, and what had
transpired since seemed to have taken place in a few minutes, though it
was, in reality, several hours. This was made manifest by the feeling
of hunger on the part of Tom and his friends.

"I wonder if they're going to starve us, the scoundrels?" asked Mr.
Sharp, when the irate lieutenant was beyond hearing. "It's not fair to
make us go hungry and shoot us in the bargain."

"That's so, they ought to feed us," put in Tom. As yet neither he nor
the others fully realized the meaning of the sentence passed on them.

From where they were on deck they could look off to the little island.
From it boats manned by natives were constantly putting off, bringing
supplies to the ship. The place appeared to be a sort of calling
station for Brazilian warships, where they could get fresh water and
fruit and other food.

From the island the gaze of the adventurers wandered to the submarine,
which lay not far away. They were chagrined to see several of the
bolder natives clambering over the deck.

"I hope they keep out of the interior," commented Tom. "If they get to
pulling or hauling on the levers and wheels they may open the tanks and
sink her, with the Conning tower open."

"Better that, perhaps, than to have her fall into the hands of a
foreign power," commented Captain Weston.  "Besides, I don't see that
it's going to matter much to us what becomes of her after we're--"

He did not finish, but every one knew what he meant, and a grim silence
fell upon the little group.

There came a welcome diversion, however, in the shape of three sailors,
bearing trays of food, which were placed on the deck in front of the
prisoners, who were sitting or lying in the shade of an awning, for the
sun was very hot.

"Ha! Bless my napkin-ring!" cried Mr. Damon with something of his
former gaiety. "Here's a meal, at all events. They don't intend to
starve us. Eat hearty, every one."

"Yes, we need to keep up our strength," observed Captain Weston.

"Why?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"Because we're going to try to escape!" exclaimed Tom in a low voice,
when the sailors who had brought the food had gone. "Isn't that what
you mean, captain?"

"Exactly. We'll try to give these villains the slip, and we'll need all
our strength and wits to do it. We'll wait until night, and see what we
can do."

"But where will we escape to?" asked Mr. Swift. "The island will afford
no shelter, and--"

"No, but our submarine will," went on the sailor.

"It's in the possession of the Brazilians," objected Tom.

"Once I get aboard the Advance twenty of those brown-skinned villains
won't keep me prisoner," declared Captain Weston fiercely. "If we can
only slip away from here, get into the small boat, or even swim to the
submarine, I'll make those chaps on board her think a hurricane has
broken loose."

"Yes, and I'll help," said Mr. Damon.

"And I," added Tom and the balloonist.

"That's the way to talk," commented the captain. "Now let's eat, for I
see that rascally lieutenant coming this way, and we mustn't appear to
be plotting, or he'll be suspicious."

The day passed slowly, and though the prisoners seemed to be allowed
considerable liberty, they soon found that it was only apparent. Once
Tom walked some distance from that portion of the deck where he and the
others had been told to remain. A sailor with a gun at once ordered him
back. Nor could they approach the rails without being directed, harshly
enough at times, to move back amidships.

As night approached the gold-seekers were on the alert for any chance
that might offer to slip away, or even attack their guard, but the
number of Brazilians around them was doubled in the evening, and after
supper, which was served to them on deck by the light of swinging
lanterns, they were taken below and locked in a stuffy cabin. They
looked helplessly at each other.

"Don't give up," advised Captain Weston. "It's a long night. We may be
able to get out of here."

But this hope was in vain. Several times he and Tom, thinking the
guards outside the cabin were asleep, tried to force the lock of the
door with their pocket-knives, which had not been taken from them. But
one of the sailors was aroused each time by the noise, and looked in
through a barred window, so they had to give it up. Slowly the night
passed, and morning found the prisoners pale, tired and discouraged.
They were brought up on deck again, for which they were thankful, as in
that tropical climate it was stifling below.

During the day they saw Admiral Fanchetti and several of his officers
pay a visit to the submarine. They went below through the opened
conning tower, and were gone some time.

"I hope they don't disturb any of the machinery," remarked Mr. Swift.
"That could easily do great damage."

Admiral Fanchetti seemed much pleased with himself when he returned
from his visit to the submarine.

"You have a fine craft," he said to the prisoners. "Or, rather, you had
one. My government now owns it. It seems a pity to shoot such good boat
builders, but you are too dangerous to be allowed to go."

If there had been any doubt in the minds of Tom and his friends that
the sentence of the court-martial was only for effect, it was dispelled
that day. A firing squad was told off in plain view of them, and the
men were put through their evolutions by Lieutenant Drascalo, who had
them load, aim and fire blank cartridges at an imaginary line of
prisoners. Tom could not repress a shudder as he noted the leveled
rifles, and saw the fire and smoke spurt from the muzzles.

"Thus we shall do to you at sunrise to-morrow," said the lieutenant,
grinning, as he once more had his men practice their grim work.

It seemed hotter than ever that day. The sun was fairly broiling, and
there was a curious haziness and stillness to the air. It was noticed
that the sailors on the San Paulo were busy making fast all loose
articles on deck with extra lashings, and hatch coverings were doubly
secured.

"What do you suppose they are up to?" asked Tom of Captain Weston.

"I think it is coming on to blow," he replied, "and they don't want to
be caught napping. They have fearful storms down in this region at this
season of the year, and I think one is about due."

"I hope it doesn't wreck the submarine," spoke Mr. Swift.  "They ought
to close the hatch of the conning tower, for it won't take much of a
sea to make her ship considerable water."

Admiral Fanchetti had thought of this, however, and as the afternoon
wore away and the storm signs multiplied, he sent word to close the
submarine. He left a few sailors aboard inside on guard.

"It's too hot to eat," observed Tom, when their supper had been brought
to them, and the others felt the same way about it. They managed to
drink some cocoanut milk, prepared in a palatable fashion by the
natives of the island, and then, much to their disgust, they were taken
below again and locked in the cabin.

"Whew! But it certainly is hot!" exclaimed Mr. Damon as he sat down on
a couch and fanned himself. "This is awful!"

"Yes, something is going to happen pretty soon," observed Captain
Weston. "The storm will break shortly, I think."

They sat languidly about the cabin. It was so oppressive that even the
thought of the doom that awaited them in the morning could hardly seem
worse than the terrible heat. They could hear movements going on about
the ship, movements which indicated that preparations were being made
for something unusual. There was a rattling of a chain through a hawse
hole, and Captain Weston remarked:

"They're putting down another anchor. Admiral Fanchetti had better get
away from the island, though, unless he wants to be wrecked. He'll be
blown ashore in less than no time. No cable or chain will hold in such
storms as they have here."

There came a period of silence, which was suddenly broken by a howl as
of some wild beast.

"What's that?" cried Tom, springing up from where he was stretched out
on the cabin floor.

"Only the wind," replied the captain. "The storm has arrived."

The howling kept up, and soon the ship began to rock. The wind
increased, and a little later there could be heard, through an opened
port in the prisoners' cabin, the dash of rain.

"It's a regular hurricane!" exclaimed the captain. "I wonder if the
cables will hold?"

"What about the submarine?" asked Mr. Swift anxiously.

"I haven't much fear for her. She lies so low in the water that the
wind can't get much hold on her. I don't believe she'll drag her
anchor."

Once more came a fierce burst of wind, and a dash of rain, and then,
suddenly above the outburst of the elements, there sounded a crash on
deck. It was followed by excited cries.

"Something's happened!" yelled Tom. The prisoners gathered in a
frightened group in the middle of the cabin. The cries were repeated,
and then came a rush of feet just outside the cabin door.

"Our guards! They're leaving!" shouted Tom.

"Right!" exclaimed Captain Weston. "Now's our chance! Come on! If we're
going to escape we must do it while the storm is at its height, and all
is in confusion. Come on!"

Tom tried the door. It was locked.

"One side!" shouted the captain, and this time he did not pause to say
"by your leave." He came at the portal on the run, and his shoulder
struck it squarely. There was a splintering and crashing of wood, and
the door was burst open.

"Follow me!" cried the valiant sailor, and Tom and the others rushed
after him. They could hear the wind howling more loudly than ever, and
as they reached the deck the rain dashed into their faces with such
violence that they could hardly see. But they were aware that something
had occurred.  By the light of several lanterns swaying in the terrific
blast they saw that one of the auxiliary masts had broken off near the
deck.

It had fallen against the chart house, smashing it, and a number of
sailors were laboring to clear away the wreckage.

"Fortune favors us!" cried Captain Weston. "Come on! Make for the small
boat. It's near the side ladder. We'll lower the boat and pull to the
submarine."

There came a flash of lightning, and in its glare Tom saw something
that caused him to cry out.

"Look!" he shouted. "The submarine. She's dragged her anchors!"

The Advance was much closer to the warship than she had been that
afternoon. Captain Weston looked over the side.

"It's the San Paulo that's dragging her anchors, not the submarine!" he
shouted. "We're bearing down on her! We must act quickly. Come on,
we'll lower the boat!"

In the rush of wind and the dash of rain the prisoners crowded to the
accommodation companion ladder, which was still over the side of the
big ship. No one seemed to be noticing them, for Admiral Fanchetti was
on the bridge, yelling orders for the clearing away of the wreckage.
But Lieutenant Drascalo, coming up from below at that moment, caught
sight of the fleeing ones. Drawing his sword, he rushed at them,
shouting:

"The prisoners! The prisoners! They are escaping!"

Captain Weston leaped toward the lieutenant.

"Look out for his sword!" cried Tom. But the doughty sailor did not
fear the weapon. Catching up a coil of rope, he cast it at the
lieutenant. It struck him in the chest, and he staggered back, lowering
his sword.

Captain Weston leaped forward, and with a terrific blow sent Lieutenant
Drascalo to the deck.

"There!" cried the sailor. "I guess you won't yell 'Silenceo!' for a
while now."

There was a rush of Brazilians toward the group of prisoners. Tom
caught one with a blow on the chin, and felled him, while Captain
Weston disposed of two more, and Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon one each. The
savage fighting of the Americans was too much for the foreigners, and
they drew back.

"Come on!" cried Captain Weston again. "The storm is getting worse. The
warship will crash into the submarine in a few minutes. Her anchors
aren't holding. I didn't think they would."

He made a dash for the ladder, and a glance showed him that the small
boat was in the water at the foot of it. The craft had not been hoisted
on the davits.

"Luck's with us at last!" cried Tom, seeing it also.  "Shall I help
you, dad?"

"No; I think I'm all right. Go ahead."

There came such a gust of wind that the San Paulo was heeled over, and
the wreck of the mast, rolling about, crashed into the side of a deck
house, splintering it. A crowd of sailors, led by Admiral Fanchetti,
who were again rushing on the escaping prisoners, had to leap back out
of the way of the rolling mast.

"Catch them! Don't let them get away!" begged the commander, but the
sailors evidently had no desire to close in with the Americans.

Through the rush of wind and rain Tom and his friends staggered down
the ladder. It was hard work to maintain one's footing, but they
managed it. On account of the high side of the ship the water was
comparatively calm under her lee, and, though the small boat was
bobbing about, they got aboard. The oars were in place, and in another
moment they had shoved off from the landing stage which formed the foot
of the accommodation ladder.

"Now for the Advance!" murmured Captain Weston.

"Come back! Come back, dogs of Americans!" cried a voice at the rail
over their heads, and looking up, Tom saw Lieutenant Drascalo. He had
snatched a carbine from a marine, and was pointing it at the recent
prisoners. He fired, the flash of the gun and a dazzling chain of
lightning coming together. The thunder swallowed up the report of the
carbine, but the bullet whistled uncomfortable close to Tom's head. The
blackness that followed the lightning shut out the view of everything
for a few seconds, and when the next flash came the adventurers saw
that they were close to their submarine.

A fusillade of shots sounded from the deck of the warship, but as the
marines were poor marksmen at best, and as the swaying of the ship
disconcerted them, our friends were in little danger.

There was quite a sea once they were beyond the protection of the side
of the warship, but Captain Weston, who was rowing, knew how to manage
a boat skillfully, and he soon had the craft alongside the bobbing
submarine.

"Get aboard, now, quick!" he cried.

They leaped to the small deck, casting the rowboat adrift.  It was the
work of but a moment to open the conning tower.  As they started to
descend they were met by several Brazilians coming up.

"Overboard with 'em!" yelled the captain. "Let them swim ashore or to
their ship!"

With almost superhuman strength he tossed one big sailor from the small
deck. Another showed fight, but he went to join his companion in the
swirling water. A man rushed at Tom, seeking the while to draw his
sword, but the young inventor, with a neat left-hander, sent him to
join the other two, and the remainder did not wait to try conclusions.
They leaped for their lives, and soon all could be seen, in the
frequent lightning flashes, swimming toward the warship which was now
closer than ever to the submarine.

"Get inside and we'll sink below the surface!" called Tom.  "Then we
don't care what happens."

They closed the steel door of the conning tower. As they did so they
heard the patter of bullets from carbines fired from the San Paulo.
Then came a violent tossing of the Advance; the waves were becoming
higher as they caught the full force of the hurricane. It took but an
instant to sever, from within, the cable attached to the anchor, which
was one belonging to the warship. The Advance began drifting.

"Open the tanks, Mr. Sharp!" cried Tom. "Captain Weston and I will
steer. Once below we'll start the engines."

Amid a crash of thunder and dazzling flashes of lightning, the
submarine began to sink. Tom, in the conning tower had a sight of the
San Paulo as it drifted nearer and nearer under the influence of the
mighty wind. As one bright flash came he saw Admiral Fanchetti and
Lieutenant Drascalo leaning over the rail and gazing at the Advance.

A moment later the view faded from sight as the submarine sank below
the surface of the troubled sea. She was tossed about for some time
until deep enough to escape the surface motion. Waiting until she was
far enough down so that her lights would not offer a mark for the guns
of the warship, the electrics were switched on.

"We're safe now!" cried Tom, helping his father to his cabin. "They've
got too much to attend to themselves to follow us now, even if they
could. Shall we go ahead, Captain Weston?"

"I think so, yes, if I may be allowed to express my opinion," was the
mild reply, in strange contrast to the strenuous work in which the
captain had just been engaged.

Tom signaled to Mr. Sharp in the engine-room, and in a few seconds the
Advance was speeding away from the island and the hostile vessel. Nor,
deep as she was now, was there any sign of the hurricane. In the
peaceful depths she was once more speeding toward the sunken treasure.




Chapter Twenty-Two

At the Wreck


"Well," remarked Mr. Damon, as the submarine hurled herself forward
through the ocean, "I guess that firing party will have something else
to do to-morrow morning besides aiming those rifles at us."

"Yes, indeed," agreed Tom. "They'll be lucky if they save their ship.
My, how that wind did blow!"

"You're right," put in Captain Weston. "When they get a hurricane down
in this region it's no cat's paw. But they were a mighty careless lot
of sailors. The idea of leaving the ladder over the side, and the boat
in the water."

"It was a good thing for us, though," was Tom's opinion.

"Indeed it was," came from the captain. "But as long as we are safe now
I think we'd better take a look about the craft to see if those chaps
did any damage. They can't have done much, though, or she wouldn't be
running so smoothly.  Suppose you go take a look, Tom, and ask your
father and Mr. Sharp what they think. I'll steer for a while, until we
get well away from the island."

The young inventor found his father and the balloonist busy in the
engine-room. Mr. Swift had already begun an inspection of the
machinery, and so far found that it had not been injured. A further
inspection showed that no damage had been done by the foreign guard
that had been in temporary possession of the Advance, though the
sailors had made free in the cabins, and had broken into the food
lockers, helping themselves plentifully. But there was still enough for
the gold-seekers.

"You'd never know there was a storm raging up above," observed Tom as
he rejoined Captain Weston in the lower pilot house, where he was
managing the craft. "It's as still and peaceful here as one could wish."

"Yes, the extreme depths are seldom disturbed by a surface storm. But
we are over a mile deep now. I sent her down a little while you were
gone, as I think she rides a little more steadily."

All that night they speeded forward, and the next day, rising to the
surface to take an observation, they found no traces of the storm,
which had blown itself out. They were several hundred miles away from
the hostile warship, and there was not a vessel in sight on the broad
expanse of blue ocean.

The air tanks were refilled, and after sailing along on the surface for
an hour or two, the submarine was again sent below, as Captain Weston
sighted through his telescope the smoke of a distant steamer.

"As long as it isn't the Wonder, we're all right," said Tom. "Still, we
don't want to answer a lot of questions about ourselves and our object."

"No. I fancy the Wonder will give up the search," remarked the captain,
as the Advance was sinking to the depths.

"We must be getting pretty near to the end of our search ourselves,"
ventured the young inventor.

"We are within five hundred miles of the intersection of the
forty-fifth parallel and the twenty-seventh meridian, east from
Washington," said the captain. "That's as near as I could locate the
wreck. Once we reach that point we will have to search about under
water, for I don't fancy the other divers left any buoys to mark the
spot."

It was two days later, after uneventful sailing, partly on the surface,
and partly submerged, that Captain Weston, taking a noon observation,
announced:

"Well, we're here!"

"Do you mean at the wreck?" asked Mr. Swift eagerly.

"We're at the place where she is supposed to lie, in about two miles of
water," replied the captain. "We are quite a distance off the coast of
Uruguay, about opposite the harbor of Rio de La Plata. From now on we
shall have to nose about under water, and trust to luck."

With her air tanks filled to their capacity, and Tom having seen that
the oxygen machine and other apparatus was in perfect working order,
the submarine was sent below on her search. Though they were in the
neighborhood of the wreck, the adventurers might still have to do
considerable searching before locating it. Lower and lower they sank
into the depths of the sea, down and down, until they were deeper than
they had ever gone before. The pressure was tremendous, but the steel
sides of the Advance withstood it.

Then began a search that lasted nearly a week. Back and forth they
cruised, around in great circles, with the powerful searchlight focused
to disclose the sunken treasure ship. Once Tom, who was observing the
path of light in the depths from the conning tower, thought he had seen
the remains of the Boldero, for a misty shape loomed up in front of the
submarine, and he signaled for a quick stop. It was a wreck, but it had
been on the ocean bed for a score of years, and only a few timbers
remained of what had been a great ship. Much disappointed, Tom rang for
full speed ahead again, and the current was sent into the great
electric plates that pulled and pushed the submarine forward.

For two days more nothing happened. They searched around under the
green waters, on the alert for the first sign, but they saw nothing.
Great fish swam about them, sometimes racing with the Advance. The
adventurers beheld great ocean caverns, and skirted immense rocks,
where dwelt monsters of the deep. Once a great octopus tried to do
battle with the submarine and crush it in its snaky arms, but Tom saw
the great white body, with saucer-shaped eyes, in the path of light and
rammed him with the steel point. The creature died after a struggle.

They were beginning to despair when a full week had passed and they
were seemingly as far from the wreck as ever. They went to the surface
to enable Captain Weston to take another observation. It only confirmed
the other, and showed that they were in the right vicinity. But it was
like looking for a needle in a haystack, almost, to find the sunken ship
in that depth of water.

"Well, we'll try again," said Mr. Swift, as they sank once more beneath
the surface.

It was toward evening, on the second day after this, that Tom, who was
on duty in the conning tower, saw a black shape looming up in front of
the submarine, the searchlight revealing it to him far enough away so
that he could steer to avoid it. He thought at first that it was a
great rock, for they were moving along near the bottom, but the
peculiar shape of it soon convinced him that this could not be. It came
more plainly into view as the submarine approached it more slowly, then
suddenly, out of the depths in the illumination from the searchlight,
the young inventor saw the steel sides of a steamer. His heart gave a
great thump, but he would not call out yet, fearing that it might be
some other vessel than the one containing the treasure.

He steered the Advance so as to circle it. As he swept past the bows he
saw in big letters near the sharp prow the word, Boldero.

"The wreck! The wreck!" he cried, his voice ringing through the craft
from end to end. "We've found the wreck at last!"

"Are you sure?" cried his father, hurrying to his son, Captain Weston
following.

"Positive," answered the lad. The submarine was slowing up now, and Tom
sent her around on the other side. They had a good view of the sunken
ship. It seemed to be intact, no gaping holes in her sides, for only
her plates had started, allowing her to sink gradually.

"At last," murmured Mr. Swift. "Can it be possible we are about to get
the treasure?"

"That's the Boldero, all right," affirmed Captain Weston.  "I recognize
her, even if the name wasn't on her bow. Go right down on the bottom,
Tom, and we'll get out the diving suits and make an examination."

The submarine settled to the ocean bed. Tom glanced at the depth gage.
It showed over two miles and a half. Would they be able to venture out
into water of such enormous pressure in the comparatively frail diving
suits, and wrest the gold from the wreck? It was a serious question.

The Advance came to a stop. In front of her loomed the great bulk of
the Boldero, vague and shadowy in the flickering gleam of the
searchlight. As the gold-seekers looked at her through the bull's-eyes
of the conning tower, several great forms emerged from beneath the
wreck's bows.

"Deep-water sharks!" exclaimed  Captain Weston, "and monsters, too. But
they can't bother us. Now to get out the gold!"




Chapter Twenty-Three

Attacked by Sharks


For a few minutes after reaching the wreck, which had so occupied their
thoughts for the past weeks, the adventurers did nothing but gaze at it
from the ports of the submarine.  The appearance of the deep-water
sharks gave them no concern, for they did not imagine the ugly
creatures would attack them. The treasure-seekers were more engrossed
with the problem of getting out the gold.

"How are we going to get at it?" asked Tom, as he looked at the high
sides of the sunken ship, which towered well above the comparatively
small Advance.

"Why, just go in and get it," suggested Mr. Damon. "Where is gold in a
cargo usually kept, Captain Weston? You ought to know, I should think.
Bless my pocketbook!"

"Well, I should say that in this case the bullion would be kept in a
safe in the captain's cabin," replied the sailor.  "Or, if not there,
in some after part of the vessel, away from where the crew is
quartered. But it is going to be quite a problem to get at it. We can't
climb the sides of the wreck, and it will be impossible to lower her
ladder over the side. However, I think we had better get into the
diving suits and take a closer look. We can walk around her."

"That's my idea," put in Mr. Sharp. "But who will go, and who will stay
with the ship?"

"I think Tom and Captain Weston had better go," suggested Mr. Swift.
"Then, in case anything happens, Mr. Sharp, you and I will be on board
to manage matters."

"You don't think anything will happen, do you, dad?" asked his son with
a laugh, but it was not an easy one, for the lad was thinking of the
shadowy forms of the ugly sharks.

"Oh, no, but it's best to be prepared," answered his father.

The captain and the young inventor lost no time in donning the diving
suits. They each took a heavy metal bar, pointed at one end, to use in
assisting them to walk on the bed of the ocean, and as a protection in
case the sharks might attack them. Entering the diving chamber, they
were shut in, and then water was admitted until the pressure was seen,
by gauges, to be the same as that outside the submarine. Then the
sliding steel door was opened. At first Tom and the captain could
barely move, so great was the pressure of water on their bodies. They
would have been crushed but for the protection afforded by the strong
diving suits.

In a few minutes they became used to it, and stepped out on the floor
of the ocean. They could not, of course, speak to each other, but Tom
looked through the glass eyes of his helmet at the captain, and the
latter motioned for the lad to follow. The two divers could breathe
perfectly, and by means of small, but powerful lights on the helmets,
the way was lighted for them as they advanced.

Slowly they approached the wreck, and began a circuit of her. They
could see several places where the pressure of the water, and the
strain of the storm in which she had foundered, had opened the plates
of the ship, but in no case were the openings large enough to admit a
person.  Captain Weston put his steel bar in one crack, and tried to
pry it farther open, but his strength was not equal to the task. He
made some peculiar motions, but Tom could not understand them.

They looked for some means by which they could mount to the decks of
the Boldero, but none was visible. It was like trying to scale a
fifty-foot smooth steel wall. There was no place for a foothold. Again
the sailor made some peculiar motions, and the lad puzzled over them.
They had gone nearly around the wreck now, and as yet had seen no way
in which to get at the gold. As they passed around the bow, which was
in a deep shadow from a great rock, they caught sight of the submarine
lying a short distance away. Light streamed from many bull's-eyes, and
Tom felt a sense of security as he looked at her, for it was lonesome
enough in that great depth of water, unable to speak to his companion,
who was a few feet in advance.

Suddenly there was a swirling of the water, and Tom was nearly thrown
off his feet by the rush of some great body. A long, black shadow
passed over his head, and an instant later he saw the form of a great
shark launched at Captain Weston. The lad involuntarily cried in alarm,
but the result was surprising. He was nearly deafened by his own voice,
confined as the sound was in the helmet he wore. But the sailor, too,
had felt the movement of the water, and turned just in time. He thrust
upward with his pointed bar. But he missed the stroke, and Tom, a
moment later, saw the great fish turn over so that its mouth, which is
far underneath its snout, could take in the queer shape which the shark
evidently thought was a choice morsel. The big fish did actually get
the helmet of Captain Weston inside its jaws, but probably it would
have found it impossible to crush the strong steel. Still it might have
sprung the joints, and water would have entered, which would have been
as fatal as though the sailor had been swallowed by the shark. Tom
realized this and, moving as fast as he could through the water, he
came up behind the monster and drove his steel bar deep into it.

The sea was crimsoned with blood, and the savage creature, opening its
mouth, let go of the captain. It turned on Tom, who again harpooned it.
Then the fish darted off and began a wild flurry, for it was dying. The
rush of water nearly threw Tom off his feet, but he managed to make his
way over to his friend, and assist him to rise. A confident look from
the sailor showed the lad that Captain Weston was uninjured, though he
must have been frightened. As the two turned to make their way back to
the submarine, the waters about them seemed alive with the horrible
monsters.

It needed but a glance to show what they were, Sharks!  Scores of them,
long, black ones, with their ugly, undershot mouths. They had been
attracted by the blood of the one Tom had killed, but there was not a
meal for all of them off the dying creature, and the great fish might
turn on the young inventor and his companion.

The two shrank closer toward the wreck. They might get under the prow
of that and be safe. But even as they started to move, several of the
sea wolves darted quickly at them.  Tom glanced at the captain. What
could they do? Strong as were the diving suits, a combined attack by
the sharks, with their powerful jaws, would do untold damage.

At that moment there seemed some movement on board the submarine. Tom
could see his father looking from the conning tower, and the aged
inventor seemed to be making some motions. Then Tom understood. Mr.
Swift was directing his son and Captain Weston to crouch down. The lad
did so, pulling the sailor after him. Then Tom saw the bow electric gun
run out, and aimed at the mass of sharks, most of whom were congregated
about the dead one. Into the midst of the monsters was fired a number
of small projectiles, which could be used in the electric cannon in
place of the solid shot. Once more the waters were red with blood, and
those sharks which were not killed swirled off. Tom and Captain Weston
were saved. They were soon inside the submarine again, telling their
thrilling story.

"It's lucky you saw us, dad," remarked the lad, blushing at the praise
Mr. Damon bestowed on him for killing the monster which had attacked
the captain.

"Oh, I was on the lookout," said the inventor. "But what about getting
into the wreck?"

"I think the only way we can do it will be to ram a hole in her side,"
said Captain Weston. "That was what I tried to tell Tom by motions, but
he didn't seem to understand me."

"No," replied the lad, who was still a little nervous from his recent
experience. "I thought you meant for us to turn it over, bottom side
up," and he laughed.

"Bless my gizzard!  Just like a shark," commented Mr. Damon.

"Please don't mention them," begged Tom. "I hope we don't see any more
of them."

"Oh, I fancy they have been driven far enough away from this
neighborhood now," commented the captain. "But now about the wreck. We
may be able to approach it from above.  Suppose we try to lower the
submarine on it? That will save ripping it open."

This was tried a little later, but would not work. There were strong
currents sweeping over the top of the Boldero, caused by a submerged
reef near which she had settled. It was a delicate task to sink the
submarine on her decks, and with the deep waters swirling about was
found to be impossible, even with the use of the electric plates and
the auxiliary screws. Once more the Advance settled to the ocean bed,
near the wreck.

"Well, what's to be done?" asked Tom, as he looked at the high steel
sides.

"Ram her, tear a hole, and then use dynamite," decided Captain Weston
promptly. "You have some explosive, haven't you, Mr. Swift?"

"Oh, yes. I came prepared for emergencies."

"Then we'll blow up the wreck and get at the gold."




Chapter Twenty-Four

Ramming the Wreck


Fitted with a long, sharp steel ram in front, the Advance was
peculiarly adapted for this sort of work. In designing the ship this
ram was calculated to be used against hostile vessels in war time, for
the submarine was at first, as we know, destined for a Government boat.
Now the ram was to serve a good turn.

To make sure that the attempt would be a success, the machinery of the
craft was carefully gone over. It was found to be in perfect order,
save for a few adjustments which were needed. Then, as it was night,
though there was no difference in the appearance of things below the
surface, it was decided to turn in, and begin work in the morning. Nor
did the gold-seekers go to the surface, for they feared they might
encounter a storm.

"We had trouble enough locating the wreck," said Captain Weston, "and
if we go up we may be blown off our course. We have air enough to stay
below, haven't we, Tom?"

"Plenty," answered the lad, looking at the gages.

After a hearty breakfast the next morning, the submarine crew got ready
for their hard task. The craft was backed away as far as was practical,
and then, running at full speed, she rammed the wreck. The shock was
terrific, and at first it was feared some damage had been done to the
Advance, but she stood the strain.

"Did we open up much of a hole?" anxiously asked Mr. Swift.

"Pretty good," replied Tom, observing it through the conning tower
bull's-eyes, when the submarine had backed off again. "Let's give her
another."

Once more the great steel ram hit into the side of the Boldero, and
again the submarine shivered from the shock.  But there was a bigger
hole in the wreck now, and after Captain Weston had viewed it he
decided it was large enough to allow a person to enter and place a
charge of dynamite so that the treasure ship would be broken up.

Tom and the captain placed the explosive. Then the Advance was
withdrawn to a safe distance. There was a dull rumble, a great swirling
of the water, which was made murky; but when it cleared, and the
submarine went back, it was seen that the wreck was effectively broken
up. It was in two parts, each one easy of access.

"That's the stuff!" cried Tom. "Now to get at the gold!"

"Yes, get out the diving suits," added Mr. Damon. "Bless my
watch-charm, I think I'll chance it in one myself! Do you think the
sharks are all gone, Captain Weston?"

"I think so."

In a short time Tom, the captain, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon were attired
in the diving suits, Mr. Swift not caring to venture into such a great
depth of water. Besides, it was necessary for at least one person to
remain in the submarine to operate the diving chamber.

Walking slowly along the bottom of the sea the four gold-seekers
approached the wreck. They looked on all sides for a sight of the
sharks, but the monster fish seemed to have deserted that part of the
ocean. Tom was the first to reach the now disrupted steamer. He found
he could easily climb up, for boxes and barrels from the cargo holds
were scattered all about by the explosion. Captain Weston soon joined
the lad. The sailor motioned Tom to follow him, and being more familiar
with ocean craft the captain was permitted to take the lead. He headed
aft, seeking to locate the captain's cabin. Nor was he long in finding
it. He motioned for the others to enter, that the combined illumination
of the lamps in their helmets would make the place bright enough so a
search could be made for the gold.  Tom suddenly seized the arm of the
captain, and pointed to one corner of the cabin. There stood a small
safe, and at the sight of it Captain Weston moved toward it. The door
was not locked, probably having been left open when the ship was
deserted. Swinging it back the interior was revealed.

It was empty. There was no gold bullion in it.

There was no mistaking the dejected air of Captain Weston.  The others
shared his feelings, but though they all felt like voicing their
disappointment, not a word could be spoken. Mr. Sharp, by vigorous
motions, indicated to his companions to seek further.

They did so, spending all the rest of the day in the wreck, save for a
short interval for dinner. But no gold rewarded their search.

Tom, late that afternoon, wandered away from the others, and found
himself in the captain's cabin again, with the empty safe showing dimly
in the water that was all about.

"Hang it all!" thought the lad, "we've had all our trouble for nothing!
They must have taken the gold with them."

Idly he raised his steel bar, and struck it against the partition back
of the safe. To his astonishment the partition seemed to fall inward,
revealing a secret compartment. The lad leaned forward to bring the
light for his helmet to play on the recess. He saw a number of boxes,
piled one upon the other. He had accidentally touched a hidden spring
and opened a secret receptacle. But what did it contain?

Tom reached in and tried to lift one of the boxes. He found it beyond
his strength. Trembling from excitement, he went in search of the
others. He found them delving in the after part of the wreck, but by
motions our hero caused them to follow him. Captain Weston showed the
excitement he felt as soon as he caught sight of the boxes. He and Mr.
Sharp lifted one out, and placed it on the cabin floor. They pried off
the top with their bars.

There, packed in layers, were small yellow bars; dull, gleaming, yellow
bars! It needed but a glance to show that they were gold bullion. Tom
had found the treasure. The lad tried to dance around there in the
cabin of the wreck, nearly three miles below the surface of the ocean,
but the pressure of water was too much for him. Their trip had been
successful.




Chapter Twenty-Five

Home With the Gold


There was no time to be lost. They were in a treacherous part of the
ocean, and strong currents might at any time further break up the
wreck, so that they could not come at the gold. It was decided, by
means of motions, to at once transfer the treasure to the submarine. As
the boxes were too heavy to carry easily, especially as two men, who
were required to lift one, could not walk together in the uncertain
footing afforded by the wreck, another plan was adopted. The boxes were
opened and the bars, a few at a time, were dropped on a firm, sandy
place at the side of the wreck. Tom and Captain Weston did this work,
while Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon carried the bullion to the diving chamber
of the Advance. They put the yellow bars inside, and when quite a
number had been thus shifted, Mr. Swift, closing the chamber, pumped
the water out and removed the gold. Then he opened the chamber to the
divers again, and the process was repeated, until all the bullion had
been secured.

Tom would have been glad to make a further examination of the wreck,
for he thought he could get some of the rifles the ship carried, but
Captain Weston signed to him not to attempt this.

The lad went to the pilot house, while his father and Mr. Sharp took
their places in the engine-room. The gold had been safely stowed in Mr.
Swift's cabin.

Tom took a last look at the wreck before he gave the starting signal.
As he gazed at the bent and twisted mass of steel that had once been a
great ship, he saw something long, black and shadowy moving around from
the other side, coming across the bows.

"There's another big shark," he observed to Captain Weston. "They're
coming back after us."

The captain did not speak. He was staring at the dark form. Suddenly,
from what seemed the pointed nose of it, there gleamed a light, as from
some great eye.

"Look at that!" cried Tom. "That's no shark!"

"If you want my opinion," remarked the sailor, "I should say it was the
other submarine--that of Berg and his friends--the Wonder. They've
managed to fix up their craft and are after the gold."

"But they're too late!" cried Tom excitedly. "Let's tell them so."

"No," advised the captain. "We don't want any trouble with them."

Mr. Swift came forward to see why his son had not given the signal to
start. He was shown the other submarine, for now that the Wonder had
turned on several searchlights, there was no doubt as to the identity
of the craft.

"Let's get away unobserved if we can," he suggested. "We have had
trouble enough."

It was easy to do this, as the Advance was hidden behind the wreck, and
her lights were glowing but dimly. Then, too, those in the other
submarine were so excited over the finding of what they supposed was
the wreck containing the treasure, that they paid little attention to
anything else.

"I wonder how they'll feel when they find the gold gone?" asked Tom as
he pulled the lever starting the pumps.

"Well, we may have a chance to learn, when we get back to
civilization," remarked the captain.

The surface was soon reached, and then, under fair skies, and on a calm
sea, the voyage home was begun. Part of the time the Advance sailed on
the top, and part of the time submerged.

They met with but a single accident, and that was when the forward
electrical plate broke. But with the aft one still in commission, and
the auxiliary screws, they made good time. Just before reaching home
they settled down to the bottom and donned the diving suits again, even
Mr. Swift taking his turn. Mr. Damon caught some large lobsters, of
which he was very fond, or, rather, to be more correct, the lobsters
caught him. When he entered the diving chamber there were four fine
ones clinging to different parts of his diving suit. Some of them were
served for dinner.

The adventurers safely reached the New Jersey coast, and the submarine
was docked. Mr. Swift at once communicated with the proper authorities
concerning the recovery of the gold. He offered to divide with the
actual owners, after he and his friends had been paid for their
services, but as the revolutionary party to whom the bullion was
intended had gone out of existence, there was no one to officially
claim the treasure, so it all went to Tom and his friends, who made an
equitable distribution of it. The young inventor did not forget to buy
Mrs. Baggert a fine diamond ring, as he had promised.

As for Berg and his employers, they were, it was learned later, greatly
chagrined at finding the wreck valueless.  They tried to make trouble
for Tom and his father, but were not successful.

A few days after arriving at the seacoast cottage, Tom, his father and
Mr. Damon went to Shopton in the airship.  Captain Weston, Garret
Jackson and Mr Sharp remained behind in charge of the submarine. It was
decided that the Swifts would keep the craft and not sell it to the
Government, as Tom said they might want to go after more treasure some
day.

"I must first deposit this gold," said Mr. Swift as the airship landed
in front of the shed at his home. "It won't do to keep it in the house
over night, even if the Happy Harry gang is in jail."

Tom helped him take it to the bank. As they were making perhaps the
largest single deposit ever put in the institution, Ned Newton came out.

"Well, Tom," he cried to his chum, "it seems that you are never going
to stop doing things. You've conquered the air, the earth and the
water."

"What have you been doing while I've been under water, Ned?" asked the
young inventor.

"Oh, the same old thing. Running errands and doing all sorts of work in
the bank."

Tom had a sudden idea. He whispered to his father and Mr. Swift nodded.
A little later he was closeted with Mr. Prendergast, the bank
president. It was not long before Ned and Tom were called in.

"I have some good news for you, Ned," said Mr. Prendergast, while Tom
smiled. "Mr. Swift er--ahem--one of our largest depositors, has spoken
to me about you, Ned. I find that you have been very faithful. You are
hereby appointed assistant cashier, and of course you will get a much
larger salary."

Ned could hardly believe it, but he knew then what Tom had whispered to
Mr. Swift. The wishes of a depositor who brings much gold bullion to a
bank can hardly be ignored.

"Come on out and have some soda," invited Tom, and when Ned looked
inquiringly at the president, the latter nodded an assent.

As the two lads were crossing the street to a drug store, something
whizzed past them, nearly running them down.

"What sort of an auto was that?" cried Tom.

"That? Oh, that was Andy Foger's new car," answered Ned.  "He's been
breaking the speed laws every day lately, but no one seems to bother
him. It's because his father is rich, I suppose. Andy says he has the
fastest car ever built."

"He has, eh?" remarked Tom, while a curious look came into his eyes.
"Well, maybe I can build one that will beat his."

And whether the young inventor did or not you can learn by reading the
fifth volume of this series, to be called "Tom Swift and His Electric
Runabout; Or, The Speediest Car on the Road."

"Well, Tom, I certainly appreciate what you did for me in getting me a
better position," remarked Ned as they left the drug store. "I was
beginning to think I'd never get promoted. Say, have you anything to do
this evening? If you haven't, I wish you'd come over to my house. I've
got a lot of pictures I took while you were away."

"Sorry, but I can't," replied Tom.

"Why, are you going to build another airship or submarine?"

"No, but I'm going to see-- Oh, what do you want to know for, anyhow?"
demanded the young inventor with a blush.  "Can't a fellow go see a
girl without being cross-questioned?"

"Oh, of course," replied Ned with a laugh. "Give Miss Nestor my
regards," and at this Tom blushed still more. But, as he said, that was
his own affair.








End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Tom Swift and his Submarine Boat, by
Victor Appleton


The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Hermit of Mars, by Stephen Bartholomew

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Hermit of Mars

Author: Stephen Bartholomew

Illustrator: Virgil Finlay

Release Date: September 14, 2016 [EBook #53048]

Language: English




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net












                       He was the oldest man on
                    Mars ... in fact, the only one!


When Martin Devere was 23 and still working on his Master's, he was
hurt by a woman. It was then that he decided that the only things
that were worthwhile in life were pure art and pure science. That, of
course, is another story, but it may explain why he chose to become an
archeologist in the first place.

Now he was the oldest human being on Mars. He was 91. For many years,
in fact, he had been the _only_ human being on Mars. Up until today.

He looked through the transparent wall of his pressurized igloo at the
puff of dust in the desert where the second rocket had come down. Earth
and Mars were just past conjunction, and the regular automatic supply
rocket had landed two days ago. As usual, Martin Devere, taking his
own good time about it, had unloaded the supplies, keeping the things
he really needed and throwing away the useless stuff like the latest
microfilmed newspapers and magazines, the taped TV shows and concerts.
As payment for his groceries he had then reloaded the rocket with the
written reports he had accumulated since the last conjunction, plus a
few artifacts.

Then he had pushed a button and sent the rocket on its way again, back
to Earth. He didn't mind writing the reports. Most of them were rubbish
anyway, but they seemed to keep the people back at the Institute happy.
He did mind the artifacts. It seemed wrong to remove them, though he
sent only the less valuable ones back. But perhaps it couldn't be
helped. One time, the supply rocket had failed to return when he pushed
its red button--the thing was still sitting out there in the desert,
slowly rusting. Martin Devere had happily unloaded the artifacts and
put them back where they belonged. It wasn't his fault.

The puff of dust on the horizon was beginning to settle. This second
rocket had descended with a shrill scream through the thin air, its
voice more highly pitched than it would have been in denser atmosphere.
Martin Devere had looked up from his work in time to see its braking
jets vanish behind the low Martian hills a few kilometers distant.

It was much too large to be an automatic supply rocket, even if there
had been reason to expect another one. Martin Devere knew it could mean
only one thing--someone was paying him an unannounced visit.

He waited, watching through the igloo wall to see who had come to poke
around and bother him after all these years.

At first he was annoyed that the people at the Institute hadn't let him
know visitors were coming. Then he reminded himself that it had been
years since he'd taken the trouble to listen to his radio receiver, or
to read the messages they sent him along with supplies.

After a long time, he made out a smaller dust-puff, and then a little
sandcat advancing slowly across the desert. Riding on top of it were
two men in space suits.

       *       *       *       *       *

Everyone on Earth who reads popular magazines or watches TV knows the
story of Martin Devere, "The Hermit of Mars." Over the years, now that
he is dead, he has become a sort of culture hero, as Dr. Livingston or
Albert Schweitzer once were. Though Martin Devere could not be called
a humanitarian in any sense of the word. After his divorce from his
first and only wife, at the age of 45, he never gave much thought again
either to women or any other kind of people--except for his long-dead
Martians.

But everyone should know by now how Martin Devere first came to Mars
at the age of 50. Even then he was the oldest man on the planet,
and Mars sustained quite a large research colony at the time. Only
Martin Devere's unchallenged scientific reputation, together with his
apparent good health, enabled him to leave Earth as head of a five-man
archeological team. This turned up the first fossil ruins far beneath
the desert sand.

Then there came a day when the Space Institute of the United
Governments decided to abandon Project Mars. It was getting too
expensive to maintain. Everything of value to space research had
already been learned about the planet, and the archeological site,
though yet barely scratched, did not properly come under space
research. Closing Project Mars would mean more funds for solar
research, on Mercury, for the Lunar colony and for work on the
interstellar drive.

So the hundred-odd inhabitants of the Project received orders to leave
the igloos and other equipment behind and come back to Earth.

Martin Devere, however, had been on Mars for three years now. When the
Project physician gave him his routine exam, it was discovered that a
valve in Martin Devere's aorta had developed a faint flutter. Nothing
too serious, really. But enough to greatly reduce his chances of
surviving another rocket lift-off.

Martin Devere smiled at the news and volunteered to remain behind,
alone on Mars. Under the circumstances, the Institute was forced to
agree.

On the day that the strange rocket came down behind the desert hills,
Martin Devere had been on Mars for a total of 38 years. For the past 35
of them he had been The Hermit--and quite happy about it....

The little sandcat was getting closer. Martin Devere smiled to himself,
watching the two men in their clumsy space gear. It was high noon, and
a nice comfortable ten degrees centigrade outside. If the two newcomers
thought they needed full spacesuits to get around out there, Martin
Devere wasn't going to tell them any different. Actually, though the
atmospheric pressure was about the same as at the top of Mount Everest,
on a beautiful day like this a man could get along easily outdoors with
nothing more than an oxygen mask. But let them clomp around in their
rubberized long-johns if they wanted to.

In a few minutes they would be coming in through the igloo's airlock.
Martin Devere turned away, scowling now. He hoped the Institute hadn't
decided to reopen Mars Project. There was plenty of room in all these
igloos and connecting tunnels that had been left behind, but with a new
expedition here it might get pretty crowded. Mainly, Devere didn't want
a bunch of amateurs poking around his diggings, breaking things.

His thumb rubbed slowly across the long stubble on his chin. He
wondered if he had made some slip in that last report, or in some of
the pictures of the ruins he'd sent back. He'd rather the Institute
didn't find out about those fossilized machines he'd dug up. He didn't
understand the gadgets himself, but some of the people at the Institute
just might decide they were interesting enough to be worth sending up
an expert.

The Institute, Devere knew, was interested in machinery, not art
objects.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the men held an automatic pistol pointed at Martin Devere while
the other was stripping off his space gear. Then the pistol changed
hands while the first man removed his own suit. Martin Devere could
have told them that he wasn't afraid of the gun. He didn't actually
care much, one way or the other: let them point it if it made them
happy. Martin Devere figured that he had already lived a lot longer,
here in this feeble gravity and germ-free, oxygen-rich air, than his
tricky heart would have allowed him on Earth. Let them point the gun if
they wanted to.

"If you make one move toward the radio transmitter I'll blow your head
off," the taller man said. He had black wavy hair that hung over his
brow. The other man was completely bald.

"I don't even know if the radio works," Martin Devere answered. "I
haven't turned it on in years. I should warn you, though, that if you
shoot that thing inside the igloo here, it will puncture the plastic
wall and let all the air out. I always keep the pressure up high
indoors so I can boil water for coffee."

The tall man frowned in confusion and blinked at the weapon in his
hand. Then he stared at the transparent dome above him, as if realizing
for the first time that only a thin bubble of plastic separated him
from near-vacuum, now that he had removed his suit.

"I was just making some coffee when you showed up," Martin Devere said,
turning away. "Have some? I'm afraid it's instant. I've given up trying
to get the Institute to send me a can of real coffee in the rocket.
They think I need canned TV shows more."

"He's harmless," the bald man said. "You can see he's just an old
senile nut. Leave him be, we've work to do."

The tall man lowered his weapon, then let it fall into the holster at
his hip.

"No big hurry. I think I'd like some of that coffee first. Say, Pop,
how about cooking us a meal in a couple of hours?"

Martin Devere was spooning brown powder into three cups.

"Sure thing. What would you like--beans and franks, or franks and
beans?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I suppose you wonder what we're doing, Pop?" The tall man held the
disassembled pieces of his gun in his lap. He was carefully polishing
each part with a chemically treated cloth.

It was three days since they had landed, and the tall metal skeleton
was beginning to take shape out in the desert. At the moment, the
bald man was out alone, testing circuits. Usually the two went out
together--they had apparently decided it was safe to leave Martin
Devere unguarded, though they had smashed his radio transmitter just in
case.

The two men worked steadily during the daylight hours, came back at
sunset to eat and sleep, then went out again at dawn. The towering
lacework of steel was growing like an ugly flower.

The tall man held the trigger assembly of his gun up to the light.
He turned it slowly between his thumb and forefinger. It cast an odd
crescent-shaped shadow over the muscles of his jaw.

"No, I don't wonder what you're doing," Martin Devere answered. He was
sitting at his workbench, crouched over an ancient metal plate as thin
as paper.

The tall man began to put his weapon back together again. He snapped
the trigger assembly into the receiver. He pulled the hammer back and
then released it; it made a sharp, hard click.

"Not even curious, Pop? Okay, then tell me what _you're_ doing. What's
that piece of tinfoil you've been staring at the past two hours?"

Martin Devere straightened and turned to look at the other.

"It's an ancient Martian scroll. It's nearly a million years old. I
found it in a new pit I've been digging, five hundred meters down. It's
the longest and perhaps most important bit of Martian writing I've
found so far."

"Yeah? What's it have to say?"

Martin Devere shook his head. "Their language, their whole frame of
reference, was fundamentally different from ours. It's something like
higher mathematics, you'd have to learn the language to understand it.
But I suppose you might say that this is a poem.... Yes, an epic poem."

The tall man laughed. He shoved an ammunition clip into his weapon,
pumped a round into the chamber, slipped the gun back into its holster.
He got up and began pacing the floor of the igloo. The floor was
cluttered with dozens of artifacts.

He stopped and nudged one specimen with his toe.

"What's this thing, Pop? An ancient Martian meatgrinder?"

"I hardly think so. They were vegetarians." He squinted at the object.
"I'm afraid I have no idea what it is. It's some sort of machine, but
I'm no engineer, I can't imagine what its function was. They--don't
build many machines, you know."

The man with the gun turned to stare at Martin Devere.

"You mean _didn't_ build, don't you?"

"Yes, of course.... Past tense." And Devere turned again to peer at the
million-year-old poem before him.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Damn it to hell. This might hold us up a week." The bald man flung the
shatterproof helmet of his suit against the igloo wall. His tone of
voice was matter-of-fact emotionless. Even the way he threw the helmet
betrayed no real emotion. Still wearing the rest of his suit he sat
down at Martin Devere's work bench and clenched his fists. His face was
smooth, blank.

"What's the matter?" His partner put down some drawings and came over.

"The modulator circuit doesn't check out. I'll have to take the whole
works apart and start over again." The bald man spoke--when he did
speak--with a faint accent that Martin Devere could not identify.

"It doesn't matter." The other rubbed at his chin. "We're still ahead
of our schedule."

"Hey. Old man." The bald man pointed at Devere. "You have anything to
drink in this cave of yours?"

Martin Devere frowned, thinking. He remembered a bottle he'd been
saving for some special occasion--he couldn't recall what, just now.

"I think I have some bourbon," he said at last. "If I can find it."

"Find it. Mine straight, on the rocks."

When Martin Devere returned awhile later, the bald man was still
wearing his helmetless space suit. He and his friend were studying a
complex wiring diagram spread out on the work bench.

Martin Devere put two plastic cups down on the bench and poured them
full. Neither of the men looked up from their diagram until he had set
the bottle down.

"Pour one for yourself, Pop," the tall man said.

"Thanks. Don't mind if I do." Devere went to get another cup. Over his
shoulder he said, "Hope you boys don't mind crushed ice instead of
cubes. I just set a bucket of water in one of the unheated tunnels for
a couple minutes. Then I hit it with a hammer."

It was four hours past sunset, the temperature outside was far below
freezing.

"One thing you don't need on Mars is a refrigerator!" Pouring himself
a drink, the old man suddenly laughed. It was a brief, senile giggle,
that made the tall man turn to stare at him.

"Could be uncomfortable, though, if you were ever stuck out there at
night." Martin Devere's face was sober once more as he lifted his
cup and looked deeply into it. All trace of senility had vanished as
suddenly as it had appeared. "Like, say, if you were out there long
enough for your suit power to go dead. You'd freeze to a hunk of ice
in a few minutes.... Me, I never go outside at night."

"Shut up," the bald man said.

       *       *       *       *       *

All day the bald man had been out alone, working on his electronic
circuits. Evidently this left his partner nothing to do except study
schematics.

Now Martin Devere was aware that his guest had been staring at him for
several minutes without speaking. Martin Devere went on polishing the
green crystal vase he held in his hand. The vase looked ordinary at
first glance, until you noticed that it wasn't quite symmetrical. There
was a studied and careful asymmetry about its form, barely discernible,
that would disturb you the more you looked at it--until you knew
suddenly that no human brain could have created that shape.

The polishing cloth moved rhythmically across the vase's curving
surfaces. The green crystal reflected light in a way that made you
begin to think about boundless seas of water.

"I'll be glad when this job is over with," the tall man said, half
aloud.

"When it is, will you go away?" Martin Devere turned the vase slowly in
his hands.

"Not for a while yet, Pop." The man with the gun on his hip got to his
feet and stretched.

"I don't mind telling you what it's all about, Pop. You're all
right. It's simple. My partner and I were sent here by a certain
national power that doesn't like being told how to run its own
affairs by the United Governments. We're striking the first blow for
Freedom. That thing we're putting together out there is a bomb. It
could--disable--most of Earth. It has a new kind of nuclear rocket
engine behind it that could carry it across 200 million miles in a few
hours.

"You get the idea, Pop? Here on Mars, they won't even find it. And if
they did, we could deliver the bomb before they got a missile halfway
across.... So I hope you won't mind if my partner and I stay a while,
Pop."

It was several seconds before Martin Devere answered. He set the
crystal vase carefully inside a case and regarded it a moment.

"As long as you don't go messing up my diggings or break any of the
artifacts, it's no business of mine."

"And what if I did, Pop?" The tall man walked closer to Martin Devere.
He stood over the old man, his shadow on him. His hand rested lightly
on the butt of his gun. "What if I were to take all your vases and
statues and pots and tablets and smash them to bits, one by one? What
would you do then?"

Martin Devere's eyes slowly closed and opened, he made no other move
for a minute. Then he got to his feet without looking at the other man.
He turned and began to move away, toward a tunnel door that led to the
diggings.

Probably the tall man thought that he had finally put the fear of God
into Martin Devere. But as he turned back to his pile of schematics he
heard the old man's whisper:

"You might regret it."

The man with the gun did not answer.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Tell us about it, Pop."

"Yes, why don't you tell us about it."

They meant Martin Devere's work. The two men had finished their own
job. The assembled bomb rested in the desert, silent but alive, like
some abnormal growth.

Because of sunspot activity they hadn't yet been able to radio their
employers on Earth. The bald man expected conditions to clear in two
or three days. When they did clear, he would signal, "The bird is
nesting." Then the nation he had mentioned would be ready to deliver
its ultimatum to the United Governments.

For the first time since landing on Mars, the two men were idle. They
were waiting. They looked as if they were willing to wait a long time
if necessary.

Meanwhile, Martin Devere's artifacts were the only amusements available.

Perhaps the old man knew they were making fun of him. But he seemed
to take their question seriously. When he began to speak, they found
themselves listening.

"We don't know exactly what happened." Martin Devere faced the two
men across the cluttered workbench like a lecturer addressing his
students. He held in his hand a small bronze statue that might have
been a portrayal of one of the old Martian people or, just as likely,
some long-extinct animal. In the diffuse sunlight that came through
the igloo wall, it cast a shadow on the work bench that was even more
disturbingly alien in shape.

"No, we don't know what happened to them," the old man said. "The last
of them died nearly a million years ago, before the first Homo Sapiens
walked the Earth. From what we--I--have found we know a little about
what they were like. But we don't know why they died.

"We do know, for instance, that they never had much interest in
technology. Not that they lacked intelligence. They could build a
machine when it suited their purposes, whatever those may have been.
And I don't say they weren't interested in science. They had a highly
developed theoretical science, as sophisticated as their art. You might
say they were theoreticians. They were concerned with pure art and pure
science--but not with applied technology, or commercialized art.

"My own theory is that they had no need for technology. In the first
place, they were vegetarians, not carnivorous. So that their earliest
men had no need for hunting weapons--or other gadgets. Probably they
never developed the aggressive instincts which in humanity led to
warfare with its subsequent impetus to applied technology. The Martians
never got around to making cars or airplanes or bombs. They dedicated
themselves, gentlemen, to the contemplation of beauty.

"Then, nearly a million years ago, something happened to them. Perhaps
Mars began to lose her atmosphere then. Her oceans evaporated, the
air could no longer retain her heat at night, the farmlands parched
and froze. A few of the plant types were able to adapt and survive.
But within a few years, all animal life died out. One day, there were
suddenly no more Martians left."

Martin Devere's dry, withered hand caressed the small statue he held.

"Who knows? If they'd had time to develop space travel they might have
saved themselves. Then again, with a technology like yours, they might
have blown themselves up long before the natural catastrophe ..."

"What do you mean like _yours_?" the tall man said. "You mean like
_ours_, don't you?"

But Martin Devere turned away without answering.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Do you have another bottle of bourbon, old man?"

"No, I'm afraid not," Devere said. "There was only that one bottle."

"Too bad. We should have a little celebration." The bald man began
sealing himself into his spacesuit.

"I'll wait for you here," his partner said. "I'd better start burning
those plans."

Martin Devere looked up from the fragment of ceramic he was cleaning.

"You're going to send the message now?"

Neither of the men bothered to reply, since the answer was
self-evident. The bald man tested the air and power equipment of his
suit, then turned to his partner a moment before sealing his helmet.

"You checked the sandcat's power supply?"

"Yes, but you'd better take another look at it. I think the battery's
leaking."

The bald man nodded and went out the airlock. Martin Devere watched in
silence as the other man began to gather up his diagrams and plans and
tie them into a neat bundle.

"I guess we can take it easy now, Pop. As soon as that telegram's sent
and I get this stuff burned, my partner and I are unemployed. Of course
we'll have to hang around a while longer in case they want us to shoot
off Baby out there, but there's nothing to that. In the meantime maybe
I can help you dig up some more of those old pots and statues."

Martin Devere seemed to be thinking. He watched as the tall man checked
to make sure he hadn't forgotten anything, then carried the bundle of
plans over to the electronic oven.

"_Baby._ You mean your bomb, out there. You think you might actually
shoot it off then."

"Oh, maybe, maybe not."

"Couldn't they fire it from Earth by radio?" Devere asked.

"Nope. Somebody might try jamming."

"Oh, I see...."

Martin Devere was silent again until the tall man opened the oven and
removed a bundle of gray ash. He dumped the ashes into a bucket and
began stirring them with his hand.

"Something else I was wondering about," Devere said. He began cleaning
the fragment of ceramic again, his hands working in a slow circular
motion.

"Supposing the United Governments find out where it--the bomb is. They
might send a missile to blow it up."

"Told you, Pop. Baby can out-run anything else that flies. Wouldn't do
them any good."

"Yes, yes.... Still, the missile would hit Mars, wouldn't it? I mean,
it would destroy all this--the igloos, my diggings ..."

The tall man gave a laugh.

"Don't worry so much, Pop. We'd have plenty of time to get in the ship
and clear out. We might even take you with us."

"Still ..." But the old man lapsed again into thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later, the short-range radio gave a shrill beep. The tall man
went over and flipped the _talk_ switch.

"Yeah?"

"Hello. Listen, I did something stupid."

Martin Devere looked up at the sound of the bald man's voice. Devere's
hands still held the piece of ceramic. He had polished it until a
complex geometric design was visible, etched in reds and blues. It
might have been equally a decoration or some mechanical diagram.

"Did you get the message sent?" the tall man asked.

"Yes, that part's all right. I got to the ship and contacted
headquarters. I think they're going to deliver the ultimatum right
away. Now we just wait for orders. The only thing is, the sandcat's
power went dead on me while I was halfway down a hill. It started to
roll, and I forgot I was wearing a spacesuit. I jumped out. This low
gravity fooled me too. I think I've broken my ankle, it hurts like
hell."

The tall man cursed in a low voice.

"All right, all right," he said after a moment. "Just take it easy.
I'll have to come out and get you."

"I think the sandcat is all right. Stupid of me to jump like that,
wasn't thinking. Better bring a spare battery with you.... Oh, and
you'd better bring a light too. It will be getting dark in another half
hour."

"Okay, just wait for me. I'll home in on your suit radio."

The tall man switched off the receiver and went to his own suit locker.
Martin Devere watched as he removed the holster and weapon from his
hip. He pulled the heavy plastic trousers over his denim jumper and
then buckled the gun back again before starting on the rest of the
spacesuit.

"Nothing serious, I hope?" Martin Devere put the ceramic down carefully
and picked up another object from a stack of artifacts.

"You heard, didn't you? You any good at setting a broken ankle, Pop?"

"Oh, I could manage, I guess. Broke my arm down in the diggings once.
Had to set it myself. Twenty years ago, I think it was. I've been more
careful since then." He gave a laugh. It started as a normal laugh,
then broke to a senile giggle. Then his face was serious again. He
carried the new artifact closer to the man with the gun.

"You know, I was telling you.... The Martians were vegetarians. They
never made any weapons for hunting. They did know about explosives,
though."

"What's that thing?" The tall man, struggling with the buckles of his
breathing equipment, glanced at the object in Devere's hands. It looked
like badly corroded bronze, and consisted of a long tube with a large
bulb at one end.

"This? Oh, this is some kind of a tool I found. I think it was a
digging tool, used for breaking up rocks. They _did_ build canals, you
know.... As I was saying, they knew about explosives. This tool, for
instance. It worked by means of a small, shaped charge inside this
bulb here. The explosion was so well-focused that there was almost no
recoil. A high-energy shock wave was emitted from the barrel--very
effective at short range. But the most amazing thing about this tool is
that the chemical explosive is still potent after lying underground for
nearly a million years....

"Oh, by the way. There's nothing wrong with your sandcat's battery. It
was the motor I sabotaged."

Then Martin Devere pointed the ancient digging tool at the tall man and
blew him into two neat pieces.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Hermit of Mars never did get around to walking out to the space
ship and using his visitor's radio to tell Earth what had happened. He
really intended to, but he forgot. The ultimatum that was delivered to
the United Governments failed, of course, but no one knew exactly why
until the next Earth-Mars conjunction.

The United Governments was prevailed on by the World Television Service
to send out someone to interview the Hermit, if he were still alive.

That interview was unfortunate. It might have established Martin Devere
as the world hero that he was, and he might have been awarded some kind
of medal. As it went, his rude and insulting answers to the young man's
questions made him unpopular for years.

His last answer in the interview was the worst. The young man, already
sweating, looked in desperation at the green crystal vase that Martin
Devere insisted on holding in front of the television lens. (Back at
the Institute, a dozen faces were flushing red with indignation as
their owners realized what the old man had been holding back.)

"Tell me, Dr. Devere," the young man asked. "You seem--er--a very
modest man. Doesn't it make you the least bit proud to know that you've
saved the world?"

Martin Devere lowered his vase and gave the young man a puzzled look.

"You mean Earth? Tell me, why should I want to save _that_ world?"


END



Project Gutenberg's The Door Through Space, by Marion Zimmer Bradley

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Door Through Space

Author: Marion Zimmer Bradley

Release Date: November 6, 2006 [EBook #19726]
[Last updated: August 19, 2011]

Language: English


Produced by Gregory D. Weeks, Jason Isbell, Irma Spehar
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net









=THE DOOR THROUGH SPACE=

Marion Zimmer Bradley


ACE BOOKS
A Division of Charter Communications Inc.
1120 Avenue of the Americas
New York, N.Y. 10036




THE DOOR THROUGH SPACE

Copyright (c), 1961, by Ace Books, Inc.

All Rights Reserved




... _across half a Galaxy, the Terran Empire maintains its sovereignty
with the consent of the governed. It is a peaceful reign, held by
compact and not by conquest. Again and again, when rebellion threatens
the Terran Peace, the natives of the rebellious world have turned
against their own people and sided with the men of Terra; not from fear,
but from a sense of dedication._

_There has never been open war. The battle for these worlds is fought in
the minds of a few men who stand between worlds; bound to one world by
interest, loyalties and allegiance; bound to the other by love._

_Such a world is Wolf. Such a man was Race Cargill of the Terran Secret
Service._


       *       *       *       *       *

RENDEZVOUS ON A LOST WORLD
Copyright (c), 1961, by Ace Books, Inc.

Printed in U.S.A.

       *       *       *       *       *


=Author's Note:--=

I've always wanted to write. But not until I discovered the old pulp
science-fantasy magazines, at the age of sixteen, did this general
desire become a specific urge to write science-fantasy adventures.

I took a lot of detours on the way. I discovered s-f in its golden age:
the age of Kuttner, C.L. Moore, Leigh Brackett, Ed Hamilton and Jack
Vance. But while I was still collecting rejection slips for my early
efforts, the fashion changed. Adventures on faraway worlds and strange
dimensions went out of fashion, and the new look in
science-fiction--emphasis on the _science_--came in.

So my first stories were straight science-fiction, and I'm not trying to
put down that kind of story. It has its place. By and large, the kind of
science-fiction which makes tomorrow's headlines as near as this
morning's coffee, has enlarged popular awareness of the modern,
miraculous world of science we live in. It has helped generations of
young people feel at ease with a rapidly changing world.

But fashions change, old loves return, and now that Sputniks clutter up
the sky with new and unfamiliar moons, the readers of science-fiction
are willing to wait for tomorrow to read tomorrow's headlines. Once
again, I think, there is a place, a wish, a need and hunger for the
wonder and color of the world way out. The world beyond the stars. The
world we _won't_ live to see. That is why I wrote THE DOOR THROUGH
SPACE.

--MARION ZIMMER BRADLEY

       *       *       *       *       *




CHAPTER ONE


Beyond the spaceport gates, the men of the Kharsa were hunting down a
thief. I heard the shrill cries, the pad-padding of feet in strides just
a little too long and loping to be human, raising echoes all down the
dark and dusty streets leading up to the main square.

But the square itself lay empty in the crimson noon of Wolf. Overhead
the dim red ember of Phi Coronis, Wolf's old and dying sun, gave out a
pale and heatless light. The pair of Spaceforce guards at the gates,
wearing the black leathers of the Terran Empire, shockers holstered at
their belts, were drowsing under the arched gateway where the
star-and-rocket emblem proclaimed the domain of Terra. One of them, a
snub-nosed youngster only a few weeks out from Earth, cocked an
inquisitive ear at the cries and scuffling feet, then jerked his head at
me.

"Hey, Cargill, you can talk their lingo. What's going on out there?"

I stepped out past the gateway to listen. There was still no one to be
seen in the square. It lay white and windswept, a barricade of
emptiness; to one side the spaceport and the white skyscraper of the
Terran Headquarters, and at the other side, the clutter of low
buildings, the street-shrine, the little spaceport cafe smelling of
coffee and _jaco_, and the dark opening mouths of streets that rambled
down into the Kharsa--the old town, the native quarter. But I was alone
in the square with the shrill cries--closer now, raising echoes from the
enclosing walls--and the loping of many feet down one of the dirty
streets.

Then I saw him running, dodging, a hail of stones flying round his head;
someone or something small and cloaked and agile. Behind him the
still-faceless mob howled and threw stones. I could not yet understand
the cries; but they were out for blood, and I knew it.

I said briefly, "Trouble coming," just before the mob spilled out into
the square. The fleeing dwarf stared about wildly for an instant, his
head jerking from side to side so rapidly that it was impossible to get
even a fleeting impression of his face--human or nonhuman, familiar or
bizarre. Then, like a pellet loosed from its sling, he made straight for
the gateway and safety.

And behind him the loping mob yelled and howled and came pouring over
half the square. Just half. Then by that sudden intuition which
permeates even the most crazed mob with some semblance of reason, they
came to a ragged halt, heads turning from side to side.

I stepped up on the lower step of the Headquarters building, and looked
them over.

Most of them were _chaks_, the furred man-tall nonhumans of the Kharsa,
and not the better class. Their fur was unkempt, their tails naked with
filth and disease. Their leather aprons hung in tatters. One or two in
the crowd were humans, the dregs of the Kharsa. But the star-and-rocket
emblem blazoned across the spaceport gates sobered even the wildest
blood-lust somewhat; they milled and shifted uneasily in their half of
the square.

For a moment I did not see where their quarry had gone. Then I saw him
crouched, not four feet from me, in a patch of shadow. Simultaneously
the mob saw him, huddled just beyond the gateway, and a howl of
frustration and rage went ringing round the square. Someone threw a
stone. It zipped over my head, narrowly missing me, and landed at the
feet of the black-leathered guard. He jerked his head up and gestured
with the shocker which had suddenly come unholstered.

The gesture should have been enough. On Wolf, Terran law has been
written in blood and fire and exploding atoms; and the line is drawn
firm and clear. The men of Spaceforce do not interfere in the old town,
or in any of the native cities. But when violence steps over the
threshold, passing the blazon of the star and rocket, punishment is
swift and terrible. The threat should have been enough.

Instead a howl of abuse went up from the crowd.

"_Terranan!_"

"Son of the Ape!"

The Spaceforce guards were shoulder to shoulder behind me now. The
snub-nosed kid, looking slightly pale, called out. "Get inside the
gates, Cargill! If I have to shoot--"

The older man motioned him to silence. "Wait. Cargill," he called.

I nodded to show that I heard.

"You talk their lingo. Tell them to haul off! Damned if I want to
shoot!"

I stepped down and walked into the open square, across the crumbled
white stones, toward the ragged mob. Even with two armed Spaceforce men
at my back, it made my skin crawl, but I flung up my empty hand in token
of peace:

"Take your mob out of the square," I shouted in the jargon of the
Kharsa. "This territory is held in compact of peace! Settle your
quarrels elsewhere!"

There was a little stirring in the crowd. The shock of being addressed
in their own tongue, instead of the Terran Standard which the Empire has
forced on Wolf, held them silent for a minute. I had learned that long
ago: that speaking in any of the languages of Wolf would give me a
minute's advantage.

But only a minute. Then one of the mob yelled, "We'll go if you give'm
to us! He's no right to Terran sanctuary!"

I walked over to the huddled dwarf, miserably trying to make himself
smaller against the wall. I nudged him with my foot.

"Get up. Who are you?"

The hood fell away from his face as he twitched to his feet. He was
trembling violently. In the shadow of the hood I saw a furred face, a
quivering velvety muzzle, and great soft golden eyes which held
intelligence and terror.

"What have you done? Can't you talk?"

He held out the tray which he had shielded under his cloak, an ordinary
peddler's tray. "Toys. Sell toys. Children. You got'm?"

I shook my head and pushed the creature away, with only a glance at the
array of delicately crafted manikins, tiny animals, prisms and crystal
whirligigs. "You'd better get out of here. Scram. Down that street." I
pointed.

A voice from the crowd shouted again, and it had a very ugly sound. "He
is a spy of Nebran!"

"_Nebran--_" The dwarfish nonhuman gabbled something then doubled
behind me. I saw him dodge, feint in the direction of the gates, then,
as the crowd surged that way, run for the street-shrine across the
square, slipping from recess to recess of the wall. A hail of stones
went flying in that direction. The little toy-seller dodged into the
street-shrine.

Then there was a hoarse "Ah, aaah!" of terror, and the crowd edged away,
surged backward. The next minute it had begun to melt away, its entity
dissolving into separate creatures, slipping into the side alleys and
the dark streets that disgorged into the square. Within three minutes
the square lay empty again in the pale-crimson noon.

The kid in black leather let his breath go and swore, slipping his
shocker into its holster. He stared and demanded profanely, "Where'd the
little fellow go?"

"Who knows?" the other shrugged. "Probably sneaked into one of the
alleys. Did you see where he went, Cargill?"

I came slowly back to the gateway. To me, it had seemed that he ducked
into the street-shrine and vanished into thin air, but I've lived on
Wolf long enough to know you can't trust your eyes here. I said so, and
the kid swore again, gulping, more upset than he wanted to admit. "Does
this kind of thing happen often?"

"All the time," his companion assured him soberly, with a sidewise wink
at me. I didn't return the wink.

The kid wouldn't let it drop. "Where did you learn their lingo, Mr.
Cargill?"

"I've been on Wolf a long time," I said, spun on my heel and walked
toward Headquarters. I tried not to hear, but their voices followed me
anyhow, discreetly lowered, but not lowered enough.

"Kid, don't you know who he is? That's Cargill of the Secret Service!
Six years ago he was the best man in Intelligence, before--" The voice
lowered another decibel, and then there was the kid's voice asking,
shaken, "But what the hell happened to his face?"

I should have been used to it by now. I'd been hearing it, more or less
behind my back, for six years. Well, if my luck held, I'd never hear it
again. I strode up the white steps of the skyscraper, to finish the
arrangements that would take me away from Wolf forever. To the other end
of the Empire, to the other end of the galaxy--anywhere, so long as I
need not wear my past like a medallion around my neck, or blazoned and
branded on what was left of my ruined face.




CHAPTER TWO


The Terran Empire has set its blazon on four hundred planets circling
more than three hundred suns. But no matter what the color of the sun,
the number of moons overhead, or the geography of the planet, once you
step inside a Headquarters building, you are on Earth. And Earth would
be alien to many who called themselves Earthmen, judging by the
strangeness I always felt when I stepped into that marble-and-glass
world inside the skyscraper. I heard the sound of my steps ringing into
thin resonance along the marble corridor, and squinted my eyes,
readjusting them painfully to the cold yellowness of the lights.

The Traffic Division was efficiency made insolent, in glass and chrome
and polished steel, mirrors and windows and looming electronic clerical
machines. Most of one wall was taken up by a TV monitor which gave a
view of the spaceport; a vast open space lighted with blue-white mercury
vapor lamps, and a chained-down skyscraper of a starship, littered over
with swarming ants. The process crew was getting the big ship ready for
skylift tomorrow morning. I gave it a second and then a third look. I'd
be on it when it lifted.

Turning away from the monitored spaceport, I watched myself stride
forward in the mirrored surfaces that were everywhere; a tall man, a
lean man, bleached out by years under a red sun, and deeply scarred on
both cheeks and around the mouth. Even after six years behind a desk, my
neat business clothes--suitable for an Earthman with a desk job--didn't
fit quite right, and I still rose unconsciously on the balls of my feet,
approximating the lean stooping walk of a Dry-towner from the Coronis
plains.

The clerk behind the sign marked TRANSPORTATION was a little rabbit of a
man with a sunlamp tan, barricaded by a small-sized spaceport of desk,
and looking as if he liked being shut up there. He looked up in civil
inquiry.

"Can I do something for you?"

"My name's Cargill. Have you a pass for me?"

He stared. A free pass aboard a starship is rare except for professional
spacemen, which I obviously wasn't. "Let me check my records," he
hedged, and punched scanning buttons on the glassy surface. Shadows came
and went, and I saw myself half-reflected, a tipsy shadow in a flurry of
racing colors. The pattern finally stabilized and the clerk read off
names.

"Brill, Cameron ... ah, yes. Cargill, Race Andrew, Department 38,
transfer transportation. Is that you?"

I admitted it and he started punching more buttons when the sound of the
name made connection in whatever desk-clerks use for a brain. He stopped
with his hand halfway to the button.

"Are you Race Cargill of the Secret Service, sir? _The_ Race Cargill?"

"It's right there," I said, gesturing wearily at the projected pattern
under the glassy surface.

"Why, I thought--I mean, everybody took it for granted--that is, I
heard--"

"You thought Cargill had been killed a long time ago because his name
never turned up in news dispatches any more?" I grinned sourly, seeing
my image dissolve in blurring shadows, and feeling the long-healed scar
on my mouth draw up to make the grin hideous. "I'm Cargill, all right.
I've been up on Floor 38 for six years, holding down a desk any clerk
could handle. You for instance."

He gaped. He was a rabbit of a man who had never stepped out of the safe
familiar boundaries of the Terran Trade City. "You mean _you're_ the man
who went to Charin in disguise, and routed out The Lisse? The man who
scouted the Black Ridge and Shainsa? And you've been working at a desk
upstairs all these years? It's--hard to believe, sir."

My mouth twitched. It had been hard for me to believe while I was doing
it. "The pass?"

"Right away, sir." He punched buttons and a printed chip of plastic
extruded from a slot on the desk top. "Your fingerprint, please?" He
pressed my finger into the still-soft surface of the plastic, indelibly
recording the print; waited a moment for it to harden, then laid the
chip in the slot of a pneumatic tube. I heard it whoosh away.

"They'll check your fingerprint against that when you board the ship.
Skylift isn't till dawn, but you can go aboard as soon as the process
crew finishes with her." He glanced at the monitor screen, where the
swarming crew were still doing inexplicable things to the immobile
spacecraft. "It will be another hour or two. Where are you going, Mr.
Cargill?"

"Some planet in the Hyades Cluster. Vainwal, I think, something like
that."

"What's it like there?"

"How should I know?" I'd never been there either. I only knew that
Vainwal had a red sun, and that the Terran Legate could use a trained
Intelligence officer. And _not_ pin him down to a desk.

There was respect, and even envy in the little man's voice. "Could
I--buy you a drink before you go aboard, Mr. Cargill?"

"Thanks, but I have a few loose ends to tie up." I didn't, but I was
damned if I'd spend my last hour on Wolf under the eyes of a deskbound
rabbit who preferred his adventure safely secondhand.

But after I'd left the office and the building, I almost wished I'd
taken him up on it. It would be at least an hour before I could board
the starship, with nothing to do but hash over old memories, better
forgotten.

The sun was lower now. Phi Coronis is a dim star, a dying star, and once
past the crimson zenith of noon, its light slants into a long
pale-reddish twilight. Four of Wolf's five moons were clustered in a
pale bouquet overhead, mingling thin violet moonlight into the crimson
dusk.

The shadows were blue and purple in the empty square as I walked across
the stones and stood looking down one of the side streets.

A few steps, and I was in an untidy slum which might have been on
another world from the neat bright Trade City which lay west of the
spaceport. The Kharsa was alive and reeking with the sounds and smells
of human and half-human life. A naked child, diminutive and
golden-furred, darted between two of the chinked pebble-houses, and
disappeared, spilling fragile laughter like breaking glass.

A little beast, half snake and half cat, crawled across a roof, spread
leathery wings, and flapped to the ground. The sour pungent reek of
incense from the open street-shrine made my nostrils twitch, and a
hulked form inside, not human, cast me a surly green glare as I passed.

I turned, retracing my steps. There was no danger, of course, so close
to the Trade City. Even on such planets as Wolf, Terra's laws are
respected within earshot of their gates. But there had been rioting here
and in Charin during the last month. After the display of mob violence
this afternoon, a lone Terran, unarmed, might turn up as a solitary
corpse flung on the steps of the HQ building.

There had been a time when I had walked alone from Shainsa to the Polar
Colony. I had known how to melt into this kind of night, shabby and
inconspicuous, a worn shirtcloak hunched round my shoulders, weaponless
except for the razor-sharp skean in the clasp of the cloak; walking on
the balls of my feet like a Dry-towner, not looking or sounding or
smelling like an Earthman.

That rabbit in the Traffic office had stirred up things I'd be wiser to
forget. It had been six years; six years of slow death behind a desk,
since the day when Rakhal Sensar had left me a marked man; death-warrant
written on my scarred face anywhere outside the narrow confines of the
Terran law on Wolf.

Rakhal Sensar--my fists clenched with the old impotent hate. _If I could
get my hands on him!_

It had been Rakhal who first led me through the byways of the Kharsa,
teaching me the jargon of a dozen tribes, the chirping call of the
Ya-men, the way of the catmen of the rain-forests, the argot of thieves
markets, the walk and step of the Dry-towners from Shainsa and Daillon
and Ardcarran--the parched cities of dusty, salt stone which spread out
in the bottoms of Wolf's vanished oceans. Rakhal was from Shainsa,
human, tall as an Earthman, weathered by salt and sun, and he had worked
for Terran Intelligence since we were boys. We had traveled all over our
world together, and found it good.

And then, for some reason I had never known, it had come to an end.
Even now I was not wholly sure why he had erupted, that day, into
violence and a final explosion. Then he had disappeared, leaving me a
marked man. And a lonely one: Juli had gone with him.

I strode the streets of the slum unseeing, my thoughts running a
familiar channel. Juli, my kid sister, clinging around Rakhal's neck,
her gray eyes hating me. I had never seen her again.

That had been six years ago. One more adventure had shown me that my
usefulness to the Secret Service was over. Rakhal had vanished, but he
had left me a legacy: my name, written on the sure scrolls of death
anywhere outside the safe boundaries of Terran law. A marked man, I had
gone back to slow stagnation behind a desk. I'd stood it as long as I
could.

When it finally got too bad, Magnusson had been sympathetic. He was the
Chief of Terran Intelligence on Wolf, and I was next in line for his
job, but he understood when I quit. He'd arranged the transfer and the
pass, and I was leaving tonight.

I was nearly back to the spaceport by now, across from the street-shrine
at the edge of the square. It was here that the little toy-seller had
vanished. But it was exactly like a thousand, a hundred thousand other
such street-shrines on Wolf, a smudge of incense reeking and stinking
before the squatting image of Nebran, the Toad God whose face and symbol
are everywhere on Wolf. I stared for a moment at the ugly idol, then
slowly moved away.

The lighted curtains of the spaceport cafe attracted my attention and I
went inside. A few spaceport personnel in storm gear were drinking
coffee at the counter, a pair of furred _chaks_, lounging beneath the
mirrors at the far end, and a trio of Dry-towners, rangy, weathered men
in crimson and blue shirt cloaks, were standing at a wall shelf, eating
Terran food with aloof dignity.

In my business clothes I felt more conspicuous than the _chaks_. What
place had a civilian here, between the uniforms of the spacemen and the
colorful brilliance of the Dry-towners?

A snub-nosed girl with alabaster hair came to take my order. I asked for
_jaco_ and bunlets, and carried the food to a wall shelf near the
Dry-towners. Their dialect fell soft and familiar on my ears. One of
them, without altering the expression on his face or the easy tone of
his voice, began to make elaborate comments on my entrance, my
appearance, my ancestry and probably personal habits, all defined in the
colorfully obscene dialect of Shainsa.

That had happened before. The Wolfan sense of humor is only half-human.
The finest joke is to criticize and insult a stranger, preferably an
Earthman, to his very face, in an unknown language, perfectly deadpan.
In my civilian clothes I was obviously fair game.

A look or gesture of resentment would have lost face and dignity--what
the Dry-towners call their _kihar_--permanently. I leaned over and
remarked in their own dialect that I would, at some future and
unspecified time, appreciate the opportunity to return their
compliments.

By rights they should have laughed, made some barbed remark about my
command of language and crossed their hands in symbol of a jest decently
reversed on themselves. Then we would have bought each other a drink,
and that would be that.

But it didn't happen that way. Not this time. The tallest of the three
whirled, upsetting his drink in the process. I heard its thin shatter
through the squeal of the alabaster-haired girl, as a chair crashed
over. They faced me three abreast, and one of them fumbled in the clasp
of his shirtcloak.

I edged backward, my own hand racing up for a skean I hadn't carried in
six years, and fronted them squarely, hoping I could face down the
prospect of a roughhouse. They wouldn't kill me, this close to the HQ,
but at least I was in for an unpleasant mauling. I couldn't handle three
men; and if nerves were this taut in the Kharsa, I might get knifed.
Quite by accident, of course.

The _chaks_ moaned and gibbered. The Dry-towners glared at me and I
tensed for the moment when their steady stare would explode into
violence.

Then I became aware that they were gazing, not at me, but at something
or someone behind me. The skeans snicked back into the clasps of their
cloaks.

Then they broke rank, turned and ran. They _ran_, blundering into
stools, leaving havoc of upset benches and broken crockery in their
wake. One man barged into the counter, swore and ran on, limping. I let
my breath go. Something had put the fear of God into those brutes, and
it wasn't my own ugly mug. I turned and saw the girl.

She was slight, with waving hair like spun black glass, circled with
faint tracery of stars. A black glass belt bound her narrow waist like
clasped hands, and her robe, stark white, bore an ugly embroidery across
the breasts, the flat sprawl of a conventionalized Toad God, Nebran. Her
features were delicate, chiseled, pale; a Dry-town face, all human, all
woman, but set in an alien and unearthly repose. The great eyes gleamed
red. They were fixed, almost unseeing, but the crimson lips were curved
with inhuman malice.

She stood motionless, looking at me as if wondering why I had not run
with the others. In half a second, the smile flickered off and was
replaced by a startled look of--recognition?

Whoever and whatever she was, she had saved me a mauling. I started to
phrase formal thanks, then broke off in astonishment. The cafe had
emptied and we were entirely alone. Even the _chaks_ had leaped through
an open window--I saw the whisk of a disappearing tail.

We stood frozen, looking at one another while the Toad God sprawled
across her breasts rose and fell for half a dozen breaths.

Then I took one step forward, and she took one step backward, at the
same instant. In one swift movement she was outside in the dark street.
It took me only an instant to get into the street after her, but as I
stepped across the door there was a little stirring in the air, like the
rising of heat waves across the salt flats at noon. Then the
street-shrine was empty, and nowhere was there any sign of the girl. She
had vanished. She simply was not there.

I gaped at the empty shrine. She had stepped inside and vanished, like a
wraith of smoke, like--

--Like the little toy-seller they had hunted out of the Kharsa.

There were eyes in the street again and, becoming aware of where I was,
I moved away. The shrines of Nebran are on every corner of Wolf, but
this is one instance when familiarity does not breed contempt. The
street was dark and seemed empty, but it was packed with all the little
noises of living. I was not unobserved. And meddling with a
street-shrine would be just as dangerous as the skeans of my three
loud-mouthed Dry-town roughnecks.

I turned and crossed the square for the last time, turning toward the
loom of the spaceship, filing the girl away as just another riddle of
Wolf I'd never solve.

How wrong I was!




CHAPTER THREE


From the spaceport gates, exchanging brief greetings with the guards, I
took a last look at the Kharsa. For a minute I toyed with the notion of
just disappearing down one of those streets. It's not hard to disappear
on Wolf, if you know how. And I knew, or had known once. Loyalty to
Terra? What had Terra given me except a taste of color and adventure,
out there in the Dry-towns, and then taken it away again?

If an Earthman is very lucky and very careful, he lasts about ten years
in Intelligence. I had had two years more than my share. I still knew
enough to leave my Terran identity behind like a worn-out jacket. I
could seek out Rakhal, settle our blood-feud, see Juli again....

How could I see Juli again? As her husband's murderer? No other way.
Blood-feud on Wolf is a terrible and elaborate ritual of the code
duello. And once I stepped outside the borders of Terran law, sooner or
later Rakhal and I would meet. And one of us would die.

I looked back, just once, at the dark rambling streets away from the
square. Then I turned toward the blue-white lights that hurt my eyes,
and the starship that loomed, huge and hateful, before me.

A steward in white took my fingerprint and led me to a coffin-sized
chamber. He brought me coffee and sandwiches--I hadn't, after all, eaten
in the spaceport cafe--then got me into the skyhook and strapped me,
deftly and firmly, into the acceleration cushions, tugging at the
Garensen belts until I ached all over. A long needle went into my
arm--the narcotic that would keep me safely drowsy all through the
terrible tug of interstellar acceleration.

Doors clanged, buzzers vibrated lower down in the ship, men tramped the
corridors calling to one another in the language of the spaceports. I
understood one word in four. I shut my eyes, not caring. At the end of
the trip there would be another star, another world, another language.
Another life.

I had spent all my adult life on Wolf. Juli had been a child under the
red star. But it was a pair of wide crimson eyes and black hair combed
into ringlets like spun black glass that went down with me into the
bottomless pit of sleep....

       *       *       *       *       *

Someone was shaking me.

"Ah, come on, Cargill. Wake up, man. Shake your boots!"

My mouth, foul-tasting and stiff, fumbled at the shapes of words. "Wha'
happened? Wha' y' want?" My eyes throbbed. When I got them open I saw
two men in black leathers bending over me. We were still inside gravity.

"Get out of the skyhook. You're coming with us."

"Wha'--" Even through the layers of the sedative, that got to me. Only a
criminal, under interstellar law, can be removed from a passage-paid
starship once he has formally checked in on board. I was legally, at
this moment, on my "planet of destination."

"I haven't been charged--"

"Did I say you had?" snapped one man.

"Shut up, he's doped," the other said hurriedly. "Look," he continued,
pronouncing every word loudly and distinctly, "get up now, and come with
us. The co-ordinator will hold up blastoff if we don't get off in three
minutes, and Operations will scream. Come on, please."

Then I was stumbling along the lighted, empty corridor, swaying between
the two men, foggily realizing the crew must think me a fugitive caught
trying to leave the planet.

The locks dilated. A uniformed spaceman watched us, fussily regarding a
chronometer. He fretted. "The dispatcher's office--"

"We're doing the best we can," the Spaceforce man said. "Can you walk,
Cargill?"

I could, though my feet were a little shaky on the ladders. The violet
moonlight had deepened to mauve, and gusty winds spun tendrils of grit
across my face. The Spaceforce men shepherded me, one on either side, to
the gateway.

"What the hell is all this? Is something wrong with my pass?"

The guard shook his head. "How would I know? Magnusson put out the
order, take it up with him."

"Believe me," I muttered, "I will."

They looked at each other. "Hell," said one, "he's not under arrest, we
don't have to haul him around like a convict. Can you walk all right
now, Cargill? You know where the Secret Service office is, don't you?
Floor 38. The Chief wants you, and make it fast."

I knew it made no sense to ask questions, they obviously knew no more
than I did. I asked anyhow.

"Are they holding the ship for me? I'm supposed to be leaving on it."

"Not that one," the guard answered, jerking his head toward the
spaceport. I looked back just in time to see the dust-dimmed ship leap
upward, briefly whitened in the field searchlights, and vanish into the
surging clouds above.

My head was clearing fast, and anger speeded up the process. The HQ
building was empty in the chill silence of just before dawn. I had to
rout out a dozing elevator operator, and as the lift swooped upward my
anger rose with it. I wasn't working for Magnusson any more. What right
had he, or anybody, to grab me off an outbound starship like a criminal?
By the time I barged into his office, I was spoiling for a fight.

The Secret Service office was full of grayish-pink morning and yellow
lights left on from the night before. Magnusson, at his desk, looked as
if he'd slept in his rumpled uniform. He was a big bull of a man, and
his littered desk looked, as always, like the track of a typhoon in the
salt flats.

The clutter was weighted down, here and there, with solidopic cubes of
the five Magnusson youngsters, and as usual, Magnusson was fiddling with
one of the cubes. He said, not looking up, "Sorry to pull this at the
last minute, Race. There was just time to put out a pull order and get
you off the ship, but no time to explain."

I glared at him. "Seems I can't even get off the planet without trouble!
You raised hell all the time I was here, but when I try to leave--what
is this, anyhow? I'm sick of being shoved around!"

Magnusson made a conciliating gesture. "Wait until you hear--" he began,
and broke off, looking at someone who was sitting in the chair in front
of his desk, somebody whose back was turned to me. Then the person
twisted and I stopped cold, blinking and wondering if this were a
hallucination and I'd wake up in the starship's skyhook, far out in
space.

Then the woman cried, "Race, _Race_! Don't you know me?"

I took one dazed step and another. Then she flew across the space
between us, her thin arms tangling around my neck, and I caught her up,
still disbelieving.

"_Juli!_"

"Oh, Race, I thought I'd die when Mack told me you were leaving tonight.
It's been the only thing that's kept me alive, knowing--knowing I'd see
you." She sobbed and laughed, her face buried in my shoulder.

I let her cry for a minute, then held my sister at arm's length. For a
moment I had forgotten the six years that lay between us. Now I saw
them, all of them, printed plain on her face. Juli had been a pretty
girl. Six years had fined her face into beauty, but there was tension in
the set of her shoulders, and her gray eyes had looked on horrors.

She looked tiny and thin and unbearably frail under the scanty folds of
her fur robe, a Dry-town woman's robe. Her wrists were manacled, the
jeweled tight bracelets fastened together by the links of a long fine
chain of silvered gilt that clashed a little, thinly, as her hands fell
to her sides.

"What's wrong, Juli? Where's Rakhal?"

She shivered and now I could see that she was in a state of shock.

"Gone. He's gone, that's all I know. And--oh, Race, Race, he took Rindy
with him!"

From the tone of her voice I had thought she was sobbing. Now I realized
that her eyes were dry; she was long past tears. Gently I unclasped her
clenched fingers and put her back in the chair. She sat like a doll, her
hands falling to her sides with a thin clash of chains. When I picked
them up and laid them in her lap she let them lie there motionless. I
stood over her and demanded, "Who's Rindy?" She didn't move.

"My daughter, Race. Our little girl."

Magnusson broke in, his voice harsh. "Well, Cargill, should I have let
you leave?"

"Don't be a damn fool!"

"I was afraid you'd tell the poor kid she had to live with her own
mistakes," growled Magnusson. "You're capable of it."

For the first time Juli showed a sign of animation. "I was afraid to
come to you, Mack. You never wanted me to marry Rakhal, either."

"Water under the bridge," Magnusson grunted. "And I've got lads of my
own, Miss Cargill--Mrs.--" he stopped in distress, vaguely remembering
that in the Dry-towns an improper form of address can be a deadly
insult.

But she guessed his predicament.

"You used to call me Juli, Mack. It will do now."

"You've changed," he said quietly. "Juli, then. Tell Race what you told
me. All of it."

She turned to me. "I shouldn't have come for myself--"

I knew that. Juli was proud, and she had always had the courage to live
with her own mistakes. When I first saw her, I knew this wouldn't be
anything so simple as the complaint of an abused wife or even an
abandoned or deserted mother. I took a chair, watching her and
listening.

She began. "You made a mistake when you turned Rakhal out of the
Service, Mack. In his way he was the most loyal man you had on Wolf."

Magnusson had evidently not expected her to take this tack. He scowled
and looked disconcerted, shifting uneasily in his big chair, but when
Juli did not continue, obviously awaiting his answer, he said, "Juli, he
left me no choice. I never knew how his mind worked. That final deal he
engineered--have you any idea how much that cost the Service? And have
you taken a good look at your brother's face, Juli girl?"

Juli raised her eyes slowly, and I saw her flinch. I knew how she felt.
For three years I had kept my mirror covered, growing an untidy
straggle of beard because it hid the scars and saved me the ordeal of
facing myself to shave.

Juli whispered, "Rakhal's is just as bad. Worse."

"That's some satisfaction," I said, and Mack stared at us, baffled.
"Even now I don't know what it was all about."

"And you never will," I said for the hundredth time. "We've been over
this before. Nobody could understand it unless he'd lived in the
Dry-towns. Let's not talk about it. You talk, Juli. What brought you
here like this? What about the kid?"

"There's no way I can tell you the end without telling you the
beginning," she said reasonably. "At first Rakhal worked as a trader in
Shainsa."

I wasn't surprised. The Dry-towns were the core of Terran trade on Wolf,
and it was through their cooperation that Terra existed here peaceably,
on a world only half human, or less.

The men of the Dry-towns existed strangely poised between two worlds.
They had made dealings with the first Terran ships, and thus gave
entrance to the wedge of the Terran Empire. And yet they stood proud and
apart. They alone had never yielded to the Terranizing which overtakes
all Empire planets sooner or later.

There were no Trade Cities in the Dry-towns; an Earthman who went there
unprotected faced a thousand deaths, each one worse than the last. There
were those who said that the men of Shainsa and Daillon and Ardcarran
had sold the rest of Wolf to the Terrans, to keep the Terrans from their
own door.

Even Rakhal, who had worked with Terra since boyhood, had finally come
to a point of decision and gone his own way. And it was not Terra's way.

That was what Juli was saying now.

"He didn't like what Terra was doing on Wolf. I'm not so sure I like it
myself--"

Magnusson interrupted her again. "Do you know what Wolf was like when we
came here? Have you seen the Slave Colony, the Idiot's Village? Your own
brother went to Shainsa and routed out The Lisse."

"And Rakhal helped him!" Juli reminded him. "Even after he left you, he
tried to keep out of things. He could have told them a good deal that
would hurt you, after ten years in Intelligence, you know."

I knew. It was, although I wasn't going to tell Juli this, one reason
why, at the end--during that terrible explosion of violence which no
normal Terran mind could comprehend--I had done my best to kill him. We
had both known that after this, the planet would not hold the two of us.
We could both go on living only by dividing it unevenly. I had been
given the slow death of the Terran Zone. And he had all the rest.

"But he never told them anything! I tell you, he was one of the most
loyal--"

Mack grunted, "Yeah, he's an angel. Go ahead."

She didn't, not immediately. Instead she asked what sounded like an
irrelevant question. "Is it true what he told me? That the Empire has a
standing offer of a reward for a working model of a matter transmitter?"

"That offer's been standing for three hundred years, Terran reckoning.
One million credits cash. Don't tell me he was figuring to invent one?"

"I don't think so. But I think he heard rumors about one. He said with
that kind of money he could bargain the Terrans right out of Shainsa.
That was where it started. He began coming and going at odd times, but
he never said any more about it. He wouldn't talk to me at all."

"When was all this?"

"About four months ago."

"In other words, just about the time of the riots in Charin."

She nodded. "Yes. He was away in Charin when the Ghost Wind blew, and he
came back with knife cuts in his thigh. I asked if he had been mixed-up
in the anti-Terran rioting, but he wouldn't tell me. Race, I don't know
anything about politics. I don't really care. But just about that time,
the Great House in Shainsa changed hands. I'm sure Rakhal had something
to do with that.

"And then--" Juli twisted her chained hands together in her lap--"he
tried to mix Rindy up in it. It was crazy, awful! He'd brought her some
sort of nonhuman toy from one of the lowland towns, Charin I think. It
was a weird thing, scared me. But he'd sit Rindy down in the sunlight
and have her look into it, and Rindy would gabble all sorts of nonsense
about little men and birds and a toymaker."

The chains about Juli's wrists clashed as she twisted her hands
together. I stared somberly at the fetters. The chain, which was long,
did not really hamper her movements much. Such chains were symbolic
ornaments, and most Dry-town women went all their lives with fettered
hands. But even after the years I'd spent in the Dry-towns, the sight
still brought an uneasiness to my throat, a vague discomfort.

"We had a terrible fight over that," Juli went on. "I was afraid, afraid
of what it was doing to Rindy. I threw it out, and Rindy woke up and
screamed--" Juli checked herself and caught at vanishing self-control.

"But you don't want to hear about that. It was then I threatened to
leave him and take Rindy. The next day--" Suddenly the hysteria Juli had
been forcing back broke free, and she rocked back and forth in her
chair, shaken and strangled with sobs. "He took Rindy! Oh, Race, he's
crazy, crazy. I think he hates Rindy, he--he, Race, _he smashed her
toys_. He took every toy the child had and broke them one by one,
smashed them into powder, every toy the child had--"

"Juli, please, please," Magnusson pleaded, shaken. "If we're dealing
with a maniac--"

"I don't dare think he'd harm her! He warned me not to come here, or I'd
never see her again, but if it meant war against Terra I had to come.
But Mack, please, don't do anything against him, please, please. He's
got my baby, he's got my little girl...." Her voice failed and she
buried her face in her hands.

Mack picked up the solidopic cube of his five-year-old son, and turned
it between his pudgy fingers, saying unhappily, "Juli, we'll take every
precaution. But can't you see, we've got to get him? If there's a
question of a matter transmitter, or anything like that, in the hands of
Terra's enemies--"

I could see that, too, but Juli's agonized face came between me and the
picture of disaster. I clenched my fist around the chair arm, not
surprised to see the fragile plastic buckle, crack and split under my
grip. _If it had been Rakhal's neck...._

"Mack, let me handle this. Juli, shall I find Rindy for you?"

A hope was born in her ravaged face, and died, while I looked. "Race,
he'd kill you. Or have you killed."

"He'd try," I admitted. The moment Rakhal knew I was outside the Terran
zone, I'd walk with death. I had accepted the code during my years in
Shainsa. But now I was an Earthman and felt only contempt.

"Can't you see? Once he knows I'm at large, that very code of his will
force him to abandon any intrigue, whatever you call it, conspiracy, and
come after me first. That way we do two things: we get him out of
hiding, and we get him out of the conspiracy, if there is one."

I looked at the shaking Juli and something snapped. I stooped and lifted
her, not gently, my hands biting her shoulders. "And I won't kill him,
do you hear? He may wish I had; by the time I get through with him--I'll
beat the living hell out of him; I'll cram my fists down his throat. But
I'll settle it with him like an Earthman. I won't kill him. _Hear me,
Juli?_ Because that's the worst thing I could do to him--catch him and
let him live afterward!"

Magnusson stepped toward me and pried my crushing hands off her arms.
Juli rubbed the bruises mechanically, not knowing she was doing it. Mack
said, "You can't do it, Cargill. You wouldn't get as far as Daillon. You
haven't been out of the zone in six years. Besides--"

His eyes rested full on my face. "I hate to say this, Race, but damn it,
man, go and take a good look at yourself in a mirror. Do you think I'd
ever have pulled you off the Secret Service otherwise? How in hell can
you disguise yourself now?"

"There are plenty of scarred men in the Dry-towns," I said. "Rakhal will
remember my scars, but I don't think anyone else would look twice."

Magnusson walked to the window. His huge form bulked against the light,
perceptibly darkening the office. He looked over the faraway panorama,
the neat bright Trade City below and the vast wilderness lying outside.
I could almost hear the wheels grinding in his head. Finally he swung
around.

"Race, I've heard these rumors before. But you're the only man I could
have sent to track them down, and I wouldn't send you out in cold blood
to be killed. I won't now. Spaceforce will pick him up."

I heard the harsh inward gasp of Juli's breath and said, "Damn it, no.
The first move you make--" I couldn't finish. Rindy was in his hands,
and when I knew Rakhal, he hadn't been given to making idle threats. We
all three knew what Rakhal might do at the first hint of the long arm of
Terran law reaching out for him.

I said, "For God's sake let's keep Spaceforce out of it. Let it look
like a personal matter between Rakhal and me, and let us settle it on
those terms. Remember he's got the kid."

Magnusson sighed. Again he picked up one of the cubes and stared into
the clear plastic, where the three-dimensional image of a nine-year-old
girl looked out at him, smiling and innocent. His face was transparent
as the plastic cube. Mack acts tough, but he has five kids and he is as
soft as a dish of pudding where a kid is concerned.

"I know. Another thing, too. If we send out Spaceforce, after all the
riots--how many Terrans are on this planet? A few thousand, no more.
What chance would we have, if it turned into a full-scale rebellion?
None at all, unless we wanted to order a massacre. Sure, we have bombs
and dis-guns and all that.

"But would we dare to use them? And where would we be after that? We're
here to keep the pot from boiling over, to keep out of planetary
incidents, not push them along to a point where bluff won't work. That's
why we've got to pick up Rakhal before this gets out of hand."

I said, "Give me a month. Then you can move in, if you have to. Rakhal
can't do much against Terra in that time. And I might be able to keep
Rindy out of it."

Magnusson stared at me, hard-eyed. "If you do this against my advice, I
won't be able to step in and pull you out of a jam later on, you know.
And God help you if you start up the machines and can't stop them."

I knew that. A month wasn't much. Wolf is forty thousand miles of
diameter, at least half unexplored; mountain and forest swarming with
nonhuman and semi-human cities where Terrans had never been.

Finding Rakhal, or any one man, would be like picking out one star in
the Andromeda nebula. Not impossible. Not _quite_ impossible.

Mack's eyes wandered again to his child's face, deep in the transparent
cube. He turned it in his hands. "Okay, Cargill," he said slowly, "so
we're all crazy. I'll be crazy too. Try it your way."




CHAPTER FOUR


By sunset I was ready to leave. I hadn't had any loose ends to tie up in
the Trade City, since I'd already disposed of most of my gear before
boarding the starship. I'd never been in better circumstances to take
off for parts unknown.

Mack, still disapproving, had opened the files to me, and I'd spent most
of the day in the back rooms of Floor 38, searching Intelligence files
to refresh my memory, scanning the pages of my own old reports sent
years ago from Shainsa and Daillon. He had sent out one of the nonhumans
who worked for us, to buy or acquire somewhere in the Old Town a
Dry-towner's outfit and the other things I would wear and carry.

I would have liked to go myself. I felt that I needed the practice. I
was only now beginning to realize how much I might have forgotten in the
years behind a desk. But until I was ready to make my presence known, no
one must know that Race Cargill had not left Wolf on the starship.

Above all, I must not be seen in the Kharsa until I went there in the
Dry-town disguise which had become, years ago, a deep second nature,
almost an alternate personality.

About sunset I walked through the clean little streets of the Terran
Trade City toward the Magnusson home where Juli was waiting for me.

Most of the men who go into Civil Service of the Empire come from Earth,
or from the close-in planets of Proxima and Alpha Centaurus. They go out
unmarried, and they stay that way, or marry women native to the planets
where they are sent.

But Joanna Magnusson was one of the rare Earth women who had come out
with her husband, twenty years ago. There are two kinds of Earthwomen
like that. They make their quarterings a little bit of home, or a little
bit of hell. Joanna had made their house look like a transported corner
of Earth.

I never knew quite what to think of the Magnusson household. It seemed
to me almost madness to live under a red sun, yet come inside to yellow
light, to live on a world with the wild beauty of Wolf and yet live as
they might have lived on their home planet. Or maybe I was the one who
was out of step. I had done the reprehensible thing they called "going
native." Possibly I had done just that, and in absorbing myself into the
new world, had lost the ability to fit into the old.

Joanna, a chubby comfortable woman in her forties, opened the door and
gave me her hand. "Come in, Race. Juli's expecting you."

"It's good of you." I broke off, unable to express my gratitude. Juli
and I had come from Earth--our father had been an officer on the old
starship _Landfall_ when Juli was only a child. He had died in a wreck
off Procyon, and Mack Magnusson had found me a place in Intelligence
because I spoke four of the Wolf languages and haunted the Kharsa with
Rakhal whenever I could get away.

They had also taken Juli into their own home, like a younger sister.
They hadn't said much--because they had liked Rakhal--when the breakup
came. But that terrible night when Rakhal and I nearly killed each
other, and Rakhal came with his face bleeding and took Juli away with
him, had hurt them hard. Yet it had made them all the kinder to me.

Joanna said forthrightly, "Nonsense, Race! What else could we do?" She
drew me along the hall. "You can talk in here."

I delayed a minute before going through the door she indicated. "How is
Juli?"

"Better, I think. I put her to bed in Meta's room, and she slept most of
the day. She'll be all right. I'll leave you to talk." Joanna opened the
door, and went away.

Juli was awake and dressed, and already some of the terrible frozen
horror was gone from her face. She was still tense and devil-ridden, but
not hysterical now.

The room, one of the children's bedrooms, wasn't a big one. Even at the
top of the Secret Service, a cop doesn't live too well. Not on Terra's
Civil Service pay scale. Not, with five youngsters. It looked as if all
five of the kids had taken it to pieces, one at a time.

I sat down on a too-low chair and said, "Juli, we haven't much time,
I've got to be out of the city before dark. I want to know about Rakhal,
what he does, what he's like now. Remember, I haven't seen him for
years. Tell me everything--his friends, his amusements, everything you
know."

"I always thought you knew him better than I did." Juli had a fidgety
little way of coiling the links of the chain around her wrists and it
made me nervous.

"It's routine, Juli. Police work. Mostly I play by ear, but I try to
start out by being methodical."

She answered everything I asked her, but the sum total wasn't much and
it wouldn't help much. As I said, it's easy to disappear on Wolf. Juli
knew he had been friendly with the new holders of the Great House on
Shainsa, but she didn't even know their name.

I heard one of the Magnusson children fly to the street door and return,
shouting for her mother. Joanna knocked at the door of the room and came
in.

"There's a _chak_ outside who wants to see you, Race."

I nodded. "Probably my fancy dress. Can I change in the back room,
Joanna? Will you keep my clothes here till I get back?"

I went to the door and spoke to the furred nonhuman in the sibilant
jargon of the Kharsa and he handed me what looked like a bundle of rags.
There were hard lumps inside. The _chak_ said softly, "I hear a rumor in
the Kharsa, _Raiss_. Perhaps it will help you. Three men from Shainsa
are in the city. They came here to seek a woman who has vanished, and a
toymaker. They are returning at sunrise. Perhaps you can arrange to
travel in their caravan."

I thanked him and carried the bundle inside. In the empty back room I
stripped to the skin and unrolled the bundle. There was a pair of baggy
striped breeches, a worn and shabby shirtcloak with capacious pockets, a
looped belt with half the gilt rubbed away and the base metal showing
through, and a scuffed pair of ankle-boots tied with frayed thongs of
different colors. There was a little cluster of amulets and seals. I
chose two or three of the commonest kind, and strung them around my
neck.

One of the lumps in the bundle was a small jar, holding nothing but the
ordinary spices sold in the market, with which the average Dry-towner
flavors food. I rubbed some of the powder on my body, put a pinch in the
pocket of my shirtcloak, and chewed a few of the buds, wrinkling my nose
at the long-unfamiliar pungency.

The second lump was a skean, and unlike the worn and shabby garments,
this was brand-new and sharp and bright, and its edge held a razor
glint. I tucked it into the clasp of my shirtcloak, a reassuring weight.
It was the only weapon I could dare to carry.

The last of the solid objects in the bundle was a flat wooden case,
about nine by ten inches. I slid it open. It was divided carefully into
sections cushioned with sponge-absorbent plastic, and in them lay tiny
slips of glass, on Wolf as precious as jewels. They were lenses--camera
lenses, microscope lenses, even eyeglass lenses. Packed close, there
were nearly a hundred of them nested by the shock-absorbent stuff.

They were my excuse for travel to Shainsa. Over and above the
necessities of trade, a few items of Terran manufacture--vacuum tubes,
transistors, lenses for cameras and binoculars, liquors and finely
forged small tools--are literally worth their weight in platinum.

Even in cities where Terrans have never gone, these things bring
exorbitant prices, and trading in them is a Dry-town privilege. Rakhal
had been a trader, so Juli told me, in fine wire and surgical
instruments. Wolf is not a mechanized planet, and has never developed
any indigenous industrial system; the psychology of the nonhuman seldom
runs to technological advances.

I went down the hallway again to the room where Juli was waiting.
Catching a glimpse in a full-length mirror, I was startled. All traces
of the Terran civil servant, clumsy and uncomfortable in his ill-fitting
clothes, had dropped away. A Dry-towner, rangy and scarred, looked out
at me, and it seemed that the expression on his face was one of
amazement.

Joanna whirled as I came into the room and visibly paled before,
recovering her self-control, she gave a nervous little giggle.
"Goodness, Race, I didn't know you!"

Juli whispered, "Yes, I--I remember you better like that. You're--you
look so much like--"

The door flew open and Mickey Magnusson scampered into the room, a
chubby little boy browned by a Terra-type sunlamp and glowing with
health. In his hand he held some sparkling thing that gave off tiny
flashes and glints of color.

I gave the kid a grin before I realized that I was disguised anyhow and
probably a hideous sight. The little boy backed off, but Joanna put her
plump hand on his shoulder, murmuring soothing things.

Mickey toddled toward Juli, holding up the shining thing in his hands as
if to display something very precious and beloved. Juli bent and held
out her arms, then her face contracted and she snatched at the
plaything.

"Mickey, what's that?"

He thrust it protectively behind his back. "Mine!"

"Mickey, don't be naughty," Joanna chided.

"Please let me see," Juli coaxed, and he brought it out, slowly, still
suspicious. It was an angled prism of crystal, star-shaped, set in a
frame which could get the star spinning like a solidopic. But it
displayed a new and comical face every time it was turned.

Mickey turned it round and round, charmed at being the center of
attention. There seemed to be dozens of faces, shifting with each spin
of the prism, human and nonhuman, all dim and slightly distorted. My own
face, Juli's, Joanna's came out of the crystal surface, not a reflection
but a caricature.

A choked sound from Juli made me turn in dismay. She had let herself
drop to the floor and was sitting there, white as death, supporting
herself with her two hands.

"Race! Find out where he got that--that _thing_!"

I bent and shook her. "What's the matter with you?" I demanded. She had
lapsed into the dazed, sleepwalking horror of this morning. She
whispered, "It's not a toy. Rindy had one. Joanna, _where did he get
it_?" She pointed at the shining thing with an expression of horror
which would have been laughable had it been less real, less filled with
terror.

Joanna cocked her head to one side and wrinkled her forehead,
reflectively. "Why, I don't know, now you come to ask me. I thought
maybe one of the _chaks_ had given it to Mickey. Bought it in the
bazaar, maybe. He loves it. Do get up off the floor, Juli!"

Juli scrambled to her feet. She said, "Rindy had one. It--it terrified
me. She would sit and look at it by the hour, and--I told you about it,
Race. I threw it out once, and she woke up and screamed. She shrieked
for hours and hours and she ran out in the dark and dug for it in the
trash pile, where I'd buried it. She went out in the dark, broke all her
fingernails, but she dug it out again." She checked herself, staring at
Joanna, her eyes wide in appeal.

"Well, dear," said Joanna with mild, rebuking kindness, "you needn't be
so upset. I don't think Mickey's so attached to it as all that, and
anyhow I'm not going to throw it away." She patted Juli reassuringly on
the shoulder, then gave Mickey a little shove toward the door and turned
to follow him. "You'll want to talk alone before Race leaves. Good luck,
wherever you're going, Race." She held out her hand forthrightly.

"And don't worry about Juli," she added in an undertone. "We'll take
good care of her."

When I came back to Juli she was standing by the window, looking through
the oddly filtered glass that dimmed the red sun to orange. "Joanna
thinks I'm crazy, Race."

"She thinks you're upset."

"Rindy's an odd child, a real Dry-towner. But it's not my imagination,
Race, it's not. There's something--" Suddenly she sobbed aloud again.

"Homesick, Juli?"

"I was, a little, the first years. But I was happy, believe me." She
turned her face to me, shining with tears. "You've got to believe I
never regretted it for a minute."

"I'm glad," I said dully. _That made it just fine._

"Only that toy--"

"Who knows? It might be a clue to something." The toy had reminded me of
something, too, and I tried to remember what it was. I'd seen nonhuman
toys in the Kharsa, even bought them for Mack's kids. When a single man
is invited frequently to a home with five youngsters, it's about the
only way he can repay that hospitality, by bringing the children odd
trifles and knicknacks. But I had never seen anything quite like this
one, until--

--Until yesterday. The toy-seller they had hunted out of the Kharsa, the
one who had fled into the shrine of Nebran and vanished. He had had half
a dozen of those prism-and-star sparklers.

I tried to call up a mental picture of the little toy-seller. I didn't
have much luck. I'd seen him only in that one swift glance from beneath
his hood. "Juli, have you ever seen a little man, like a _chak_ only
smaller, twisted, hunchbacked? He sells toys--"

She looked blank. "I don't think so, although there are dwarf _chaks_ in
the Polar Cities. But I'm sure I've never seen one."

"It was just an idea." But it was something to think about. A toy-seller
had vanished. Rakhal, before disappearing, had smashed all Rindy's toys.
And the sight of a plaything of cunningly-cut crystal had sent Juli into
hysterics.

"I'd better go before it's too dark," I said. I buckled the final clasp
of my shirtcloak, fitted my skean another notch into it, and counted the
money Mack had advanced me for expenses. "I want to get into the Kharsa
and hunt up the caravan to Shainsa."

"You're going there first?"

"Where else?"

Juli turned, leaning one hand against the wall. She looked frail and
ill, years older than she was. Suddenly she flung her thin arms around
me, and a link of the chain on her fettered hands struck me hard, as she
cried out, "Race, Race, he'll kill you! How can I live with that on my
conscience too?"

"You can live with a hell of a lot on your conscience." I disengaged her
arms firmly from my neck. A link of the chain caught on the clasp of my
shirtcloak, and again something snapped inside me. I grasped the chain
in my two hands and gave a mighty heave, bracing my foot against the
wall. The links snapped asunder. A flying end struck Juli under the eye.
I ripped at the seals of the jeweled cuffs, tore them from her arms,
find threw the whole assembly into a corner, where it fell with a
clash.

"Damn it," I roared, "that's over! You're never going to wear _those_
things again!" Maybe after six years in the Dry-towns, Juli was
beginning to guess what those six years behind a desk had meant to me.

"Juli, I'll find your Rindy for you, and I'll bring Rakhal in alive. But
don't ask more than that. Just _alive_. And don't ask me how."

He'd be alive when I got through with him. Sure, he'd be alive.

Just.




CHAPTER FIVE


It was getting dark when I slipped through a side gate, shabby and
inconspicuous, into the spaceport square. Beyond the yellow lamps, I
knew that the old city was beginning to take on life with the falling
night. Out of the chinked pebble-houses, men and woman, human and
nonhuman, came forth into the moonlit streets.

If anyone noticed me cross the square, which I doubted, they took me for
just another Dry-town vagabond, curious about the world of the strangers
from beyond the stars, and who, curiosity satisfied, was drifting back
where he belonged. I turned down one of the dark alleys that led away,
and soon was walking in the dark.

The Kharsa was not unfamiliar to me as a Terran, but for the last six
years I had seen only its daytime face. I doubted if there were a dozen
Earthmen in the Old Town tonight, though I saw one in the bazaar, dirty
and lurching drunk; one of those who run renegade and homeless between
worlds, belonging to neither. This was what I had nearly become.

I went further up the hill with the rising streets. Once I turned, and
saw below me the bright-lighted spaceport, the black many-windowed loom
of the skyscraper like a patch of alien shadow in the red-violet
moonlight. I turned my back on them and walked on.

At the fringe of the thieves market I paused outside a wineshop where
Dry-towners were made welcome. A golden nonhuman child murmured
something as she pattered by me in the street, and I stopped, gripped by
a spasm of stagefright. Had the dialect of Shainsa grown rusty on my
tongue? Spies were given short shrift on Wolf, and a mile from the
spaceport, I might as well have been on one of those moons. There were
no spaceport shockers at my back now. And someone might remember the
tale of an Earthman with a scarred face who had gone to Shainsa in
disguise....

I shrugged the shirtcloak around my shoulders, pushed the door and went
in. I had remembered that Rakhal was waiting for me. Not beyond this
door, but at the end of the trail, behind some other door, somewhere.
And we have a byword in Shainsa: _A trail without beginning has no end_.

Right there I stopped thinking about Juli, Rindy, the Terran Empire, or
what Rakhal, who knew too many of Terra's secrets, might do if he had
turned renegade. My fingers went up and stroked, musingly, the ridge of
scar tissue along my mouth. At that moment I was thinking only of
Rakhal, of an unsettled blood-feud, and of my revenge.

Red lamps were burning inside the wineshop, where men reclined on frowsy
couches. I stumbled over one of them, found an empty place and let
myself sink down on it, arranging myself automatically in the sprawl of
Dry-towners indoors. In public they stood, rigid and formal, even to eat
and drink. Among themselves, anything less than a loose-limbed sprawl
betrayed insulting watchfulness; only a man who fears secret murder
keeps himself on guard.

A girl with a tangled rope of hair down her back came toward me. Her
hands were unchained, meaning she was a woman of the lowest class, not
worth safeguarding. Her fur smock was shabby and matted with filth. I
sent her for wine. When it came it was surprisingly good, the sweet and
treacherous wine of Ardcarran. I sipped it slowly, looking round.

If a caravan for Shainsa were leaving tomorrow, it would be known here.
A word dropped that I was returning there would bring me, by ironbound
custom, an invitation to travel in their company.

When I sent the woman for wine a second time, a man on a nearby couch
got up, and walked over to me.

He was tall even for a Dry-towner, and there was something vaguely
familiar about him. He was no riffraff of the Kharsa, either, for his
shirtcloak was of rich silk interwoven with metallic threads, and
crusted with heavy embroideries. The hilt of his skean was carved from a
single green gem. He stood looking down at me for some time before he
spoke.

"I never forget a voice, although I cannot bring your face to mind. Have
I a duty toward you?"

I had spoken a jargon to the girl, but he addressed me in the lilting,
sing-song speech of Shainsa. I made no answer, gesturing him to be
seated. On Wolf, formal courtesy requires a series of polite _non
sequiturs_, and while a direct question merely borders on rudeness, a
direct answer is the mark of a simpleton.

"A drink?"

"I joined you unasked," he retorted, and summoned the tangle-headed
girl. "Bring us better wine than this swill!"

With that word and gesture I recognized him and my teeth clamped hard on
my lip. This was the loudmouth who had shown fight in the spaceport
cafe, and run away before the dark girl with the sign of Nebran sprawled
on her breast.

But in this poor light he had not recognized me. I moved deliberately
into the full red glow. If he did not know me for the Terran he had
challenged last night in the spaceport cafe, it was unlikely that anyone
else would. He stared at me for some minutes, but in the end he only
shrugged and poured wine from the bottle he had ordered.

Three drinks later I knew that his name was Kyral and that he was a
trader in wire and fine steel tools through the nonhuman towns. And I
had given him the name I had chosen, Rascar.

He asked, "Are you thinking of returning to Shainsa?"

Wary of a trap, I hesitated, but the question seemed harmless, so I only
countered, "Have you been long in the Kharsa?"

"Several weeks."

"Trading?"

"No." He applied himself to the wine again. "I was searching for a
member of my family."

"Did you find him?"

"Her," said Kyral, and ceremoniously spat. "No, I didn't find her. What
is your business in Shainsa?"

I chuckled briefly. "As a matter of fact, I am searching for a member of
my family."

He narrowed his eyelids as if he suspected me of mocking him, but
personal privacy is the most rigid convention of the Dry-towns and such
mockery showed a sensible disregard for prying questions if I did not
choose to answer them. He questioned no further.

"I can use an extra man to handle the loads. Are you good with pack
animals? If so, you are welcome to travel under the protection of my
caravan."

I agreed. Then, reflecting that Juli and Rakhal must, after all, be
known in Shainsa, I asked, "Do you know a trader who calls himself
Sensar?"

He started slightly; I saw his eyes move along my scars. Then reserve,
like a lowered curtain, shut itself over his face, concealing a brief
satisfied glimmer. "No," he lied, and stood up.

"We leave at first daylight. Have your gear ready." He flipped something
at me, and I caught it in midair. It was a stone incised with Kyral's
name in the ideographs of Shainsa. "You can sleep with the caravan if
you care to. Show that token to Cuinn."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kyral's caravan was encamped in a barred field past the furthest gates
of the Kharsa. About a dozen men were busy loading the pack
animals--horses shipped in from Darkover, mostly. I asked the first man
I met for Cuinn. He pointed out a burly fellow in a shiny red
shirtcloak, who was busy at chewing out one of the young men for the way
he'd put a packsaddle on his beast.

Shainsa is a good language for cursing, but Cuinn had a special talent
at it. I blinked in admiration while I waited for him to get his breath
so I could hand him Kyral's token.

In the light of the fire I saw what I'd half expected: he was the second
of the Dry-towners who'd tried to rough me up in the spaceport cafe.
Cuinn barely glanced at the cut stone and tossed it back, pointing out
one of the packhorses. "Load your personal gear on that one, then get
busy and show this mush-headed wearer of sandals"--an insult carrying
particularly filthy implications in Shainsa--"how to fasten a
packstrap."

He drew breath and began to swear at the luckless youngster again, and I
relaxed. He evidently hadn't recognized me, either. I took the strap in
my hand, guiding it through the saddle loop. "Like that," I told the
kid, and Cuinn stopped swearing long enough to give me a curt nod of
acknowledgment and point out a heap of boxed and crated objects.

"Help him load up. We want to get clear of the city by daybreak," he
ordered, and went off to swear at someone else.

Kyral turned up at dawn, and a few minutes later the camp had vanished
into a small scattering of litter and we were on our way.

Kyral's caravan, in spite of Cuinn's cursing, was well-managed and
well-handled. The men were Dry-towners, eleven of them, silent and
capable and most of them very young. They were cheerful on the trail,
handled the pack animals competently, during the day, and spent most of
the nights grouped around the fire, gambling silently on the fall of the
cut-crystal prisms they used for dice.

Three days out of the Kharsa I began to worry about Cuinn.

It was of course a spectacular piece of bad luck to find all three of
the men from the spaceport cafe in Kyral's caravan. Kyral had obviously
not known me, and even by daylight he paid no attention to me except to
give an occasional order. The second of the three was a gangling kid who
probably never gave me a second look, let alone a third.

But Cuinn was another matter. He was a man my own age, and his fierce
eyes had a shrewdness in them that I did not trust. More than once I
caught him watching me, and on the two or three occasions when he drew
me into conversation, I found his questions more direct than Dry-town
good manners allowed. I weighed the possibility that I might have to
kill him before we reached Shainsa.

We crossed the foothills and began to climb upward toward the mountains.
The first few days I found myself short of breath as we worked upward
into thinner air, then my acclimatization returned and I began to fall
into the pattern of the days and nights on the trail. The Trade City
was still a beacon in the night, but its glow on the horizon grew dimmer
with each day's march.

Higher we climbed, along dangerous trails where men had to dismount and
let the pack animals pick their way, foot by foot. Here in these
altitudes the sun at noonday blazed redder and brighter, and the
Dry-towners, who come from the parched lands in the sea-bottoms, were
burned and blistered by the fierce light. I had grown up under the
blazing sun of Terra, and a red sun like Wolf, even at its hottest,
caused me no discomfort. This alone would have made me suspect. Once
again I found Cuinn's fierce eyes watching me.

As we crossed the passes and began to descend the long trail through the
thick forests, we got into nonhuman country. Racing against the Ghost
Wind, we skirted the country around Charin, and the woods inhabited by
the terrible Ya-men, birdlike creatures who turn cannibal when the Ghost
Wind blows.

Later the trail wound through thicker forests of indigo trees and
grayish-purple brushwood, and at night we heard the howls of the catmen
of these latitudes. At night we set guards about the caravan, and the
dark spaces and shadows were filled with noises and queer smells and
rustlings.

Nevertheless, the day's marches and the night watches passed without
event until the night I shared guard with Cuinn. I had posted myself at
the edge of the camp, the fire behind me. The men were sleeping rolls of
snores, huddled close around the fire. The animals, hobbled with double
ropes, front feet to hind feet, shifted uneasily and let out long
uncanny whines.

I heard Cuinn pacing behind me. I heard a rustle at the edge of the
forest, a stir and whisper beyond the trees, and turned to speak to him,
then saw him slipping away toward the outskirts of the clearing.

For a moment I thought nothing of it, thinking that he was taking a few
steps toward the gap in the trees where he had disappeared. I suppose I
had the idea that he had slipped away to investigate some noise or
shadow, and that I should be at hand.

Then I saw the flicker of lights beyond the trees--light from the
lantern Cuinn had been carrying in his hand! He was signaling!

I slipped the safety clasp from the hilt of my skean and went after him.
In the dimming glow of the fire I fancied I saw luminous eyes watching
me, and the skin on my back crawled. I crept up behind him and leaped.
We went down in a tangle of flailing legs and arms, and in less than a
second he had his skean out and I was gripping his wrist, trying
desperately to force the blade away from my throat.

I gasped, "Don't be a fool! One yell and the whole camp will be awake!
Who were you signaling?"

In the light of the fallen lantern, lips drawn back in a snarl, he
looked almost inhuman. He strained at the knife for a moment, then
dropped it. "Let me up," he said.

I got up and kicked the fallen skean toward him. "Put that away. What in
hell were you doing, trying to bring the catmen down on us?"

For a moment he looked taken aback, then his fierce face closed down
again and he said wrathfully, "Can't a man walk away from the camp
without being half strangled?"

I glared at him, but realized I really had nothing to go by. He might
have been answering a call of nature, and the movement of the lantern
accidental. And if someone had jumped me from behind, I might have
pulled a knife on him myself. So I only said, "Don't do it again. We're
all too jumpy."

There were no other incidents that night, or the next. The night after,
while I lay huddled in my shirtcloak and blanket by the fire, I saw
Cuinn slip out of his bedroll and steal away. A moment later there was a
gleam in the darkness, but before I could summon the resolve to get up
and face it out with him, he returned, looked cautiously at the snoring
men, and crawled back into his blankets.

While we were unpacking at the next camp, Kyral halted beside me. "Heard
anything queer lately? I've got the notion we're being trailed. We'll be
out of these forests tomorrow, and after that it's clear road all the
way to Shainsa. If anything's going to happen, it will happen tonight."

I debated speaking to him about Cuinn's signals. No, I had my own
business waiting for me in Shainsa. Why mix myself up in some other,
private intrigue?

He said, "I'm putting you and Cuinn on watch again. The old men doze
off, and the young fellows get to daydreaming or fooling around. That's
all right most of the time, but I want someone who'll keep his eyes open
tonight. Did you ever know Cuinn before this?"

"Never set eyes on him."

"Funny, I had the notion--" He shrugged, turned away, then stopped.

"Don't think twice about rousing the camp if there's any disturbance.
Better a false alarm than an ambush that catches us all in our blankets.
If it came to a fight, we might be in a bad way. We all carry skeans,
but I don't think there's a shocker in the whole camp, let alone a gun.
You don't have one by any chance?"

After the men had turned in, Cuinn patrolling the camp, halted a minute
beside me and cocked his head toward the rustling forest.

"What's going on in there?"

"Who knows? Catmen on the prowl, probably, thinking the horses would
make a good meal, or maybe that we would."

"Think it will come to a fight?"

"I wouldn't know."

He surveyed me for a moment without speaking. "And if it did?"

"We'd fight." Then I sucked in my breath, for Cuinn had spoken Terran
Standard, and I, without thinking had answered in the same language. He
grinned, showing white teeth filed to a point.

"I thought so!"

I seized his shoulder and demanded roughly, "And what are you going to
do about it?"

"That depends on you," he answered, "and what you want in Shainsa. Tell
me the truth. What were you doing in the Terran Zone?" He gave me no
chance to answer. "You know who Kyral is, don't you?"

"A trader," I said, "who pays my wages and minds his own affairs." I
moved backward, hand on my skean, braced for a sudden rush. He made no
aggressive motion, however.

"Kyral told me you'd been asking questions about Rakhal Sensar," he
said. "Clever. Now I, for one, could have told you he'd never set eyes
on Rakhal. I--"

He broke off, hearing a noise in the forest, a long eerie howl. I
muttered, "If you've brought them down on us--"

He shook his head urgently. "I had to take that chance, to get word to
the others. It won't work. Where's the girl?"

I hardly heard him. I was hearing twigs snap, and silent sneaking feet.
I turned for a yell that would rouse the camp and Cuinn grabbed me hard,
saying insistently, "Quick! Where's the girl! Go back and tell her it
won't work! If Kyral suspected--"

He never finished the sentence. Just behind us came another of the long
eerie howls. I knocked Cuinn away, and suddenly the night was filled
with crouching forms that came down on us like a whirlwind.

I shouted madly as the camp came alive with men struggling out of
blankets, fighting for life itself. I ran hard, still shouting, for the
enclosure where we had tied the horses. A catman, slim and black-furred,
was crouched and cutting the hobble-strings of the nearest animal. I
hurled myself on him. He exploded, clawing, raking my shoulder with
talons that ripped the rough cloth like paper. I whipped out my skean
and slashed upward. The talons contracted in my shoulder and I gasped
with pain. Then the thing howled and fell away, clawing at the air. It
twitched and lay still.

Four shots in rapid succession cracked in the clearing. Kyral to the
contrary, someone must have had a pistol. I heard one of the cat-things
wail, a hoarse dying rattle. Something dark clawed my arm and I slashed
with the knife, going down as another set of talons fastened in my back,
rolling and clutching.

I managed to get the thing's forelimbs wedged under my elbow, my knee in
its spine. I heaved, bent it backward, backward till it screamed, a high
wail.

Then I felt the spine snap and the dead thing mewled once, just air
escaping from collapsing lungs, and slid limp from my thigh. Erect it
had not been over four feet tall and in the light of the dying fire it
might have been a dead lynx.

"Rascar...." I heard a gasp, a groan. I whirled and saw Kyral go down,
struggling, drowning in half a dozen or more of the fierce half-humans.
I leaped at the smother of bodies, ripped one away with a stranglehold,
slashed at its throat.

They were easy to kill.

I heard a high, urgent scream in their mewing tongue. Then the furred
black things seemed to melt into the forest as silently as they had
come. Kyral, dazed, his forehead running blood, his arm slashed to the
bone, was sitting on the ground, still stunned.

Somebody had to take charge. I bellowed, "Lights! Get lights. They won't
come back if we have enough light, they can only see well in the dark."

Someone stirred the fire. It blazed up as they piled on dead branches,
and I roughly commanded one of the kids to fill every lantern he could
find, and get them burning. Four of the dead things were lying in the
clearing. The youngster I'd helped loading horses, the first day, gazed
down at one of the catmen, half-disemboweled by somebody's skean, and
suddenly bolted for the bushes, where I heard him retching.

I set the others with stronger stomachs to dragging the bodies away from
the clearing, and went back to see how badly Kyral was hurt. He had the
rip in his arm and his face was covered with blood from a shallow scalp
wound, but he insisted on getting up to inspect the hurts of the others.

There was no one without a claw-wound in leg or back or shoulder, but
none were serious, and we were all feeling fairly cheerful when someone
demanded, "Where's Cuinn?"

He didn't seem to be anywhere. Kyral, staggering slightly, insisted on
searching, but I felt we wouldn't find him. "He probably went off with
his friends," I snorted, and told about the signaling. Kyral looked
grave.

"You should have told me," he began, but shouts from the far end of the
clearing sent us racing there. We nearly stumbled over a single,
solitary, motionless form, outstretched and lifeless, blind eyes staring
upward at the moons.

It was Cuinn. And his throat had been torn completely out.




CHAPTER SIX


Once we were free of the forest, the road to the Dry-towns lay straight
before us, with no hidden dangers. Some of us limped for a day or two,
or favored an arm or leg clawed by the catmen, but I knew that what
Kyral said was true; it was a lucky caravan which had to fight off only
one attack.

Cuinn haunted me. A night or two of turning over his cryptic words in my
mind had convinced me that whoever, or whatever he'd been signaling, it
wasn't the catmen. And his urgent question "Where's the girl?" swam
endlessly in my brain, making no more sense than when I had first heard
it. Who had he mistaken me for? What did he think I was mixed up in? And
who, above all, were the "others" who had to be signaled, at the risk of
an attack by catmen which had meant his own death?

With Cuinn dead, and Kyral thinking I'd saved his life, a large part of
the responsibility for the caravan now fell on me. And strangely I
enjoyed it, making the most of this interval when I was separated from
the thought of blood-feud or revenge, the need of spying or the threat
of exposure. During those days and nights on the trail I grew back
slowly into the Dry-towner I once had been. I knew I would be sorry when
the walls of Shainsa rose on the horizon, bringing me back inescapably
to my own quest.

We swung wide, leaving the straight trail to Shainsa, and Kyral
announced his intention of stopping for half a day at Canarsa, one of
the walled nonhuman cities which lay well off the traveled road. To my
inadvertent show of surprise, he returned that he had trading
connections there.

"We all need a day's rest, and the Silent Ones will buy from me, though
they have few dealings with men. Look here, I owe you something. You
have lenses? You can get a better price in Canarsa than you'd get in
Ardcarran or Shainsa. Come along with me, and I'll vouch for you."

Kyral had been most friendly since the night I had dug him out from
under the catmen, and I knew no way to refuse without exposing myself
for the sham trader I was. But I was deathly apprehensive. Even with
Rakhal I had never entered any of the nonhuman towns.

On Wolf, human and nonhuman have lived side by side for centuries. And
the human is not always the superior being. I might pass, among the
Dry-towners and the relatively stupid humanoid _chaks_, for another
Dry-towner. But Rakhal had cautioned me I could not pass among nonhumans
for native Wolfan, and warned me against trying.

Nevertheless, I accompanied Kyral, carrying the box which had cost about
a week's pay in the Terran Zone and was worth a small fortune in the
Dry-towns.

Canarsa seemed, inside the gates, like any other town. The houses were
round, beehive fashion, and the streets totally empty. Just inside the
gates a hooded figure greeted us, and gestured us by signs to follow
him. He was covered from head to foot with some coarse and shiny fiber
woven into stuff that looked like sacking.

But under the thick hooding was horror. It slithered and it had nothing
like a recognizable human shape or walk, and I felt the primeval ape in
me cowering and gibbering in a corner of my brain. Kyral muttered, close
to my ear, "No outsider is ever allowed to look on the Silent Ones in
their real form. I think they're deaf and dumb, but be damn careful."

"You bet," I whispered, and was glad the streets were empty. I walked
along, trying not to look at the gliding motion of that shrouded thing
up ahead.

The trading was done in an open hut of reeds which looked as if it had
been built in a hurry, and was not square, round, hexagonal or any other
recognizable geometrical shape. It formed a pattern of its own,
presumably, but my human eyes couldn't see it. Kyral said in a breath of
a whisper, "They'll tear it down and burn it after we leave. We're
supposed to have contaminated it too greatly for any of the Silent Ones
ever to enter again. My family has traded with them for centuries, and
we're almost the only ones who have ever entered the city."

Then two of the Silent Ones of Canarsa, also covered with that coarse
shiny stuff, slithered into the hut, and Kyral choked off his words as
if he had swallowed them.

It was the strangest trading I had ever done. Kyral laid out the small
forged-steel tools and the coils of thin fine wire, and I unpacked my
lenses and laid them out in neat rows. The Silent Ones neither spoke nor
moved, but through a thin place in the gray veiling I saw a speck which
might have been a phosphorescent eye, moving back and forth as if
scanning the things laid out for their inspection.

Then I smothered a gasp, for suddenly blank spaces appeared in the rows
of merchandise. Certain small tools--wirecutters, calipers, surgical
scissors--had vanished, and all the coils of wire had disappeared.
Blanks equally had appeared in the rows of lenses; all of my tiny,
powerful microscope lenses had vanished. I cast a quick glance at Kyral,
but he seemed unsurprised. I recalled vague rumors of the Silent Ones,
and concluded that, eerie though it seemed, this was merely their way of
doing business.

Kyral pointed at one of the tools, at an exceptionally fine pair of
binocular lenses, at the last of the coils of wire. The shrouded ones
did not move, but the lenses and the wire vanished. The small tool
remained, and after a moment Kyral dropped his hand.

I took my cue from Kyral and remained motionless, awaiting whatever
surprise was coming. I had halfway expected what happened next. In the
blank spaces, little points of light began to glimmer, and after a
moment, blue and red and green gem-stones appeared there. To me the
substitution appeared roughly equitable and fair, though I am no judge
of the fine points of gems.

Kyral scowled slightly and pointed to one of the green gems, and after a
moment it whisked away and a blue one took its place. In another spot
where a fine set of surgical instruments had lain, Kyral pointed at the
blue gem which now lay there, shook his head and held out three fingers.
After a moment, a second blue stone lay winking beside the first.

Kyral did not move, but inexorably held out the three fingers. There was
a little swirling in the air, and then both gems vanished, and the case
of surgical instruments lay in their place.

Still Kyral did not move, but held the three fingers out for a full
minute. Finally he dropped them and bent to pick up the case
instruments. Again the little swirl in the air, and the instruments
vanished. In their place lay three of the blue gems. My mouth twitched
in the first amusement I had felt since we entered this uncanny place.
Evidently bargaining with the Silent Ones was not a great deal different
than bargaining with anyone anywhere. Nevertheless, under the eyes of
those shrouded but horrible forms--if they had eyes, which I doubted--I
had no impulse to protest their offered prices.

I gathered up the rejected lenses, repacked them neatly, and helped
Kyral recrate the tools and instruments the Silent Ones had not wanted.
I noticed that in addition to the microscope lenses and surgical
instruments, they had taken all the fine wire. I couldn't imagine, and
didn't particularly want to imagine, what they intended to do with it.

On our way back through the streets, unshepherded this time, Kyral's
tongue was loosened as if with a great release from tension. "They're
psychokinetics," he told me. "Quite a few of the nonhuman races are. I
guess they have to be, having no eyes and no hands. But sometimes I
wonder if we of the Dry-towns ought to deal with them at all."

"What do you mean?" I asked, not really listening. I was thinking mostly
about the way the small objects had melted away and reappeared. The
sight had stirred some uncomfortable memory, a vague sense of danger. It
was not tangible enough for me to know why I feared it, but just a
subliminal uneasiness that kept prodding at me, like a tooth that isn't
quite aching yet.

Kyral said, "We of Shainsa live between fire and flood. Terra on the one
hand, and on the other maybe something worse, who knows? We know so
little about the Silent Ones, and those like them. Who knows, maybe
we're giving them the weapons to destroy us--" He broke off, with a
gasp, and stood staring down one of the streets.

It lay open and bare between two rows of round houses, and Kyral was
staring fixedly at a doorway which had opened there. I followed his
paralyzed gaze, and saw the girl.

Hair like spun black glass fell in hard waves around her shoulders, and
the red eyes smiled with alien malice, alien mischief, beneath the dark
crown of little stars. And the Toad God sprawled in hideous
embroideries across the white folds of her breast.

Kyral gulped hoarsely. His hand flew up as he clutched the charms strung
about his neck. I imitated the gesture mechanically, watching Kyral,
wondering if he would turn and run again. But he stood frozen for a
minute. Then the spell broke and he took one step toward the girl, arms
outstretched.

"Miellyn!" he cried, and there was heartbreak in his voice. And again,
the cry making ringing echoes in the strange street:

"Miellyn! _Miellyn!_"

This time it was the girl who whirled and fled. Her white robes
fluttered and I saw the twinkle of her flying feet as she vanished into
a space between the houses and was gone.

Kyral took one blind step down the street, then another. But before he
could burst into a run I had him by the arm, dragging him back to
sanity.

"Man, you've gone mad! Chase, in a nonhuman town?"

He struggled for a minute, then, with a harsh sigh, he said, "It's all
right, I won't--" and shook loose from my arm.

He did not speak again until we reached the gates of Canarsa and they
closed, silently and untouched, behind us. I had forgotten the place
already. I had space only to think of the girl, whose face I had not
forgotten since the moment when she saved me and disappeared. Now she
had appeared again to Kyral. What did it all mean?

I asked, as we walked toward the camp, "Do you know that girl?" But I
knew the question was futile. Kyral's face was closed, conceding
nothing, and his friendliness had vanished completely.

He said, "Now I know you. You saved me from the catmen, and again in
Canarsa, so my hands are bound from harming you. But it is evil to have
dealings with those who have been touched by the Toad God." He spat
noisily on the ground, looked at me with loathing, and said, "We will
reach Shainsa in three days. Stay away from me."




CHAPTER SEVEN


Shainsa, first in the chain of Dry-towns that lie in the bed of a
long-dried ocean, is set at the center of a great alkali plain; a dusty,
parched city bleached by a million years of sun. The houses are high,
spreading buildings with many rooms and wide windows. The poorer sort
were made of sun-dried brick, the more imposing being cut from the
bleached salt stone of the cliffs that rise behind the city.

News travels fast in the Dry-towns. If Rakhal were in the city, he'd
soon know that I was here, and guess who I was or why I'd come. I might
disguise myself so that my own sister, or the mother who bore me, would
not know me. But I had no illusions about my ability to disguise myself
from Rakhal. He had created the disguise that was me.

When the second sun set, red and burning, behind the salt cliffs, I knew
he was not in Shainsa, but I stayed on, waiting for something to happen.
At night I slept in a cubbyhole behind a wineshop, paying an inordinate
price for that very dubious privilege. And every day in the sleepy
silence of the blood-red noon I paced the public square of Shainsa.

This went on for four days. No one took the slightest notice of another
nameless man in a shabby shirtcloak, without name or identity or known
business. No one appeared to see me except the dusty children, with pale
fleecy hair, who played their patient games on the windswept curbing of
the square. They surveyed my scarred face with neither curiosity or
fear, and it occurred to me that Rindy might be such another as these.

If I had still been thinking like an Earthman, I might have tried to
question one of the children, or win their confidence. But I had a
deeper game in hand.

On the fifth day I was so much a fixture that my pacing went unnoticed
even by the children. On the gray moss of the square, a few
dried-looking old men, their faces as faded as their shirtcloaks and
bearing the knife scars of a hundred forgotten fights, drowsed on the
stone benches. And along the flagged walk at the edge of the square, as
suddenly as an autumn storm in the salt flats, a woman came walking.

She was tall, with a proud swinging walk, and a metallic clashing kept
rhythm to her swift steps. Her arms were fettered, each wrist bound with
a jeweled bracelet and the bracelets linked together by a long,
silver-gilt chain passed through a silken loop at her waist. From the
loop swung a tiny golden padlock, but in the lock stood an even tinier
key, signifying that she was a higher caste than her husband or consort,
that her fettering was by choice and not command.

She stopped directly before me and raised her arm in formal greeting
like a man. The chain made a tinkling sound in the hushed square as her
other hand was pulled up tight against the silken loop at her waist. She
stood surveying me for some moments, and finally I raised my head and
returned her gaze. I don't know why I had expected her to have hair like
spun black glass and eyes that burned with a red reflection of the
burning star.

This woman's eyes were darker than the poison-berries of the salt
cliffs, and her mouth was a cut berry that looked just as dangerous. She
was young, the slimness of her shoulders and the narrow steel-chained
wrists told me how very young she was, but her face had seen weather and
storms, and her dark eyes had weathered worse psychic storms than that.
She did not flinch at the sight of my scars, and met my gaze without
dropping her eyes.

"You are a stranger. What is your business in Shainsa?"

I met the direct question with the insolence it demanded, hardly moving
my lips. "I have come to buy women for the brothels of Ardcarran.
Perhaps when washed you might be suitable. Who could arrange for your
sale?"

She took the rebuke impassively, though the bitter crimson of her mouth
twitched a little in mischief or rage. But she made no sign. The battle
was joined between us, and I knew already that it would be fought to the
end.

From somewhere in her draperies, something fell to the ground with a
little tinkle. But I knew that trick too and I did not move. Finally she
went away without bending to retrieve it and when I looked around I saw
that all the fleece-haired children had stolen away, leaving their
playthings lying on the curbing. But one or two of the gaffers on the
stone benches, who were old enough to show curiosity without losing
face, were watching me with impassive eyes.

I could have asked the woman's name then, but I held back, knowing it
could only lessen the prestige I had gained from the encounter. I
glanced down, without seeming to do so, at the tiny mirror which had
fallen from the recesses of the fur robe. Her name might have been
inscribed on the reverse.

But I left it lying there to be picked up by the children when they
returned, and went back to the wineshop. I had accomplished my first
objective; if you can't be inconspicuous, be so damned conspicuous that
nobody can miss you. And that in itself is a fair concealment. How many
people can accurately describe a street riot?

I was finishing off a bad meal with a stone bottle of worse wine when
the _chak_ came in, disregarding the proprietor, and made straight for
me. He was furred immaculately white. His velvet muzzle was contracted
as if the very smells might soil it, and he kept a dainty paw
outstretched to ward off accidental contact with greasy counters or
tables or tapestries. His fur was scented, and his throat circled with a
collar of embroidered silk. This pampered minion surveyed me with the
innocent malice of an uninvolved nonhuman for merely human intrigues.

"You are wanted in the Great House of Shanitha, thcarred man." He spoke
the Shainsa dialect with an affected lisp. "Will it pleathe you, come
wis' me?"

I came, with no more than polite protest, but was startled. I had not
expected the encounter to reach the Great House so soon. Shainsa's Great
House had changed hands four times since I had last been in Shainsa. I
wasn't overly anxious to appear there.

The white _chak_, as out of place in the rough Dry-town as a jewel in
the streets or a raindrop in the desert, led me along a winding
boulevard to an outlying district. He made no attempt to engage me in
conversation, and indeed I got the distinct impression that this
cockscomb of a nonhuman considered me well beneath his notice. He seemed
much more aware of the blowing dust in the street, which ruffled and
smudged his carefully combed fur.

The Great House was carved from blocks of rough pink basalt, the entry
guarded by two great caryatids enwrapped in chains of carved metal, set
somehow into the surface of the basalt. The gilt had long ago worn away
from the chains so that it alternately gleamed gold or smudged base
metal. The caryatids were patient and blind, their jewel-eyes long
vanished under a hotter sun than today's.

The entrance hall was enormous. A Terran starship could have stood
upright inside it, was my first impression, but I dismissed that thought
quickly; any Terran thought was apt to betray me. But the main hall was
built on a scale even more huge, and it was even colder than the
legendary hell of the _chaks_. It was far too big for the people in it.

There was a little solar heater in the ceiling, but it didn't help much.
A dim glow came from a metal brazier but that didn't help much either.
The _chak_ melted into the shadows, and I went down the steps into the
hall by myself, feeling carefully for each step with my feet and trying
not to seem to be doing so. My comparative night-blindness is the only
significant way in which I really differ from a native Wolfan.

There were three men, two women and a child in the room. They were all
Dry-towners and had an obscure family likeness, and they all wore rich
garments of fur dyed in many colors. One of the men, old and stooped and
withered, was doing something to the brazier. A slim boy of fourteen was
sitting cross-legged on a pile of cushions in the corner. There was
something wrong with his legs.

A girl of ten in a too-short smock that showed long spider-thin legs
above her low leather boots was playing with some sort of shimmery
crystals, spilling them out into patterns and scooping them up again
from the uneven stones of the floor. One of the women was a fat, creased
slattern, whose jewels and dyed furs did not disguise her greasy
slovenliness.

Her hands were unchained, and she was biting into a fruit which dripped
red juice down the rich blue fur of her robe. The old man gave her a
look like murder as I came in, and she straightened slightly but did not
discard the fruit. The whole room had a curious look of austere,
dignified poverty, to which the fat woman was the only discordant note.

But it was the remaining man and woman who drew my attention, so that I
noticed the others only peripherally, in their outermost orbit. One was
Kyral, standing at the foot of the dais and glowering at me.

The other was the dark-eyed woman I had rebuked today in the public
square.

Kyral said, "So it's you." And his voice held nothing. Not rebuke, not
friendliness or a lack of it, not even hatred.

Nothing.

There was only one way to meet it. I faced the girl--she was sitting on
a thronelike chair next to the fat woman, and looked like a doe next to
a pig--and said boldly, "I assume this summons to mean that you informed
your kinsmen of my offer."

She flushed, and that was triumph enough. I held back the triumph,
however, wary of overconfidence. The gaffer laughed the high cackle of
age, and Kyral broke in with a sharp, angry monosyllable by which I knew
that my remark had indeed been repeated, and had lost nothing in the
telling. But only the line of his jaw betrayed the anger as he said
calmly, "Be quiet, Dallisa. Where did you pick this up?"

I said boldly, "The Great House has changed rulers since last I smelled
the salt cliffs. Newcomers do not know my name and theirs is unknown to
me."

The old gaffer said thinly to Kyral, "Our name has lost _kihar_. One
daughter is lured away by the Toymaker and another babbles with
strangers in the square, and a homeless no-good of the streets does not
know our name."

My eyes, growing accustomed to the dark blaze of the brazier, saw that
Kyral was biting his lip and scowling. Then he gestured to a table where
an array of glassware was set, and at the gesture, the white _chak_ came
on noiseless feet and poured wine.

"If you have no blood-feud with my family, will you drink with me?"

"I will," I said, relaxing. Even if he had associated the trader with
the scarred Earthman of the spaceport, he seemed to have decided to drop
the matter. He seemed startled, but he waited until I had lifted the
glass and taken a sip. Then, with a movement like lightning, he leaped
from the dais and struck the glass from my lips.

I staggered back, wiping my cut mouth, in a split-second juggling
possibilities. The insult was terrible and deadly. I could do nothing
now but fight. Men had been murdered in Shainsa for far less. I had come
to settle one feud, not involve myself in another, but even while these
lightning thoughts flickered in my mind, I had whipped out my skean and
I was surprised at the shrillness of my own voice.

"You contrive offense beneath your own roof--"

"Spy and renegade!" Kyral thundered. He did not touch his skean. From
the table he caught a long four-thonged whip, making it whistle through
the air. The long-legged child scuttled backward. I stepped back one
pace, trying to conceal my desperate puzzlement. I could not guess what
had prompted Kyral's attack, but whatever it was, I must have made some
bad mistake and could count myself lucky to get out of there alive.

Kyral's voice perceptibly trembled with rage. "You dare to come into my
own home after I have tracked you to the Kharsa and back, blind fool
that I was! But now you shall pay."

The whip sang through the air, hissing past my shoulders. I dodged to
one side, retreating step by step as Kyral swung the powerful thongs. It
cracked again, and a pain like the burning of red-hot irons seared my
upper arm. My skean rattled down from numb fingers.

The whip whacked the floor.

"Pick up your skean," said Kyral. "Pick it up if you dare." He poised
the lash again.

The fat woman screamed.

I stood rigid, gauging my chances of disarming him with a sudden leap.
Suddenly the girl Dallisa leaped from her seat with a harsh musical
chiming of chains.

"Kyral, no! No, Kyral!"

He moved slightly, but did not take his eyes from me. "Get back,
Dallisa."

"No! Wait!" She ran to him and caught his whip-arm, dragging it down,
and spoke to him hurriedly and urgently. Kyral's face changed as she
spoke; he drew a long breath and threw the whip down beside my skean on
the floor.

"Answer straight, on your life. What are you doing in Shainsa?"

I could hardly take it in that for the moment I was reprieved from
sudden death, from being beaten into bloody death there at Kyral's feet.
The girl went back to her thronelike chair. Now I must either tell the
truth or a convincing lie, and I was lost in a game where I didn't know
the rules. The explanation I thought might get me out alive might be the
very one which would bring down instant and painful death. Suddenly,
with a poignancy that was almost pain, I wished Rakhal were standing
here at my side.

But I had to bluff it out alone.

If they had recognized me for Race Cargill, the Terran spy who had often
been in Shainsa, they might release me--it was possible, I supposed,
that they were Terran sympathizers. On the other hand, Kyral's shouts of
"Spy, renegade!" seemed to suggest the opposite.

I stood trying to ignore the searing pain in my lashed arm, but I knew
that blood was running hot down my shoulder. Finally I said, "I came to
settle blood-feud."

Kyral's lips thinned in what might have been meant for a smile. "You
shall, assuredly. But with whom, remains to be seen."

Knowing I had nothing more to lose, I said, "With a renegade called
Rakhal Sensar."

Only the old man echoed my words dully, "Rakhal Sensar?"

I felt heartened, seeing I wasn't dead yet.

"I have sworn to kill him."

Kyral suddenly clapped his hands and shouted to the white _chak_ to
clean up the broken glass on the floor. He said huskily, "You are not
yourself Rakhal Sensar?"

"I _told_ you he wasn't," said Dallisa, high and hysterically. "I _told_
you he wasn't."

"A scarred man, tall--what was I to think?" Kyral sounded and looked
badly shaken. He filled a glass himself and handed it to me, saying
hoarsely, "I did not believe even the renegade Rakhal would break the
code so far as to drink with me."

"He would not." I could be positive about this. The codes of Terra had
made some superficial impress on Rakhal, but down deep his own world
held sway. If these men were at blood-feud with Rakhal and he stood here
where I stood, he would have let himself be beaten into bloody rags
before tasting their wine.

I took the glass, raised it and drained it. Then, holding it out before
me, I said, "Rakhal's life is mine. But I swear by the red star and by
the unmoving mountains, by the black snow and by the Ghost Wind, I have
no quarrel with any beneath this roof." I cast the glass to the floor,
where it shattered on the stones.

Kyral hesitated, but under the blazing eyes of the girl he quickly
poured himself a glass of the wine and drank a few sips, then flung down
the glass. He stepped forward and laid his hands on my shoulders. I
winced as he touched the welt of the lash and could not raise my own arm
to complete the ceremonial toast.

Kyral stepped away and shrugged. "Shall I have one of the women see to
your hurt?" He looked at Dallisa, but she twisted her mouth. "Do it
yourself!"

"It is nothing," I said, not truthfully. "But I demand in requital that
since we are bound by spilled blood under your roof, that you give me
what news you have of Rakhal, the spy and renegade."

Kyral said fiercely, "If I knew, would I be under my own roof?"

The old gaffer on the dais broke into shrill whining laughter. "You have
drunk wi' him, Kyral, now he's bound you not to do him harm! I know the
story of Rakhal! He was spy for Terra twelve years. Twelve years, and
then he fought and flung their filthy money in their faces and left 'em.
But his partner was some Dry-town halfbreed or Terran spy and they
fought wi' clawed gloves, and near killed one another except the
Terrans, who have no honor, stopped 'em. See the marks of the _kifirgh_
on his face!"

"By Sharra the golden-chained," said Kyral, gazing at me with something
like a grin. "You are, if nothing else, a very clever man. What are you,
spy, or half-caste of some Ardcarran slut?"

"What I am doesn't matter to you," I said. "You have blood-feud with
Rakhal, but mine is older than yours and his life is mine. As you are
bound in honor to kill"--the formal phrases came easily now to my
tongue; the Earthman had slipped away--"so you are bound in honor to
help me kill. If anyone beneath your roof knows anything of Rakhal--"

Kyral's smile bared his teeth.

"Rakhal works against the Son of the Ape," he said, using the insulting
Wolf term for the Terrans. "If we help you to kill him, we remove a goad
from their flanks. I prefer to let the filthy _Terranan_ spend their
strength trying to remove it themselves. Moreover, I believe you are
yourself an Earthman.

"You have no right to the courtesy I extend to we, the People of the
Sky. Yet you have drunk wine with me and I have no quarrel with you." He
raised his hand in dismissal, outfencing me. "Leave my roof in safety
and my city with honor."

I could not protest or plead. A man's _kihar_, his personal dignity, is
a precious thing in Shainsa, and he had placed me so I could not
compromise mine further in words. Yet I lost _kihar_ equally if I left
at his bidding, like an inferior dismissed.

One desperate gamble remained.

"A word," I said, raising my hand, and while he half turned, startled,
believing I was indeed about to compromise my dignity by a further plea,
I flung it at him:

"I will bet _shegri_ with you."

His iron composure looked shaken. I had delivered a blow to his belief
that I was an Earthman, for it is doubtful if there are six Earthmen on
Wolf who know about _shegri_, the dangerous game of the Dry-towns.

It is no ordinary gamble, for what the bettor stakes is his life,
possibly his reason. Rarely indeed will a man bet _shegri_ unless he has
nothing further to lose.

It is a cruel, possibly decadent game, which has no parallel anywhere in
the known universe.

But I had no choice. I had struck a cold trail in Shainsa. Rakhal might
be anywhere on the planet and half of Magnusson's month was already up.
Unless I could force Kyral to tell what he knew, I might as well quit.

So I repeated: "I will bet _shegri_ with you."

And Kyral stood unmoving.

For what the _shegrin_ wagers is his courage and endurance in the face
of torture and an unknown fate. On his side, the stakes are clearly
determined beforehand. But if he loses, his punishment or penalty is at
the whim of the one who has accepted him, and he may be put to whatever
doom the winner determines.

And this is the contest:

The _shegrin_ permits himself to be tortured from sunrise to sunset. If
he endures he wins. It is as simple as that. He can stop the torture at
any moment by a word, but to do so is a concession of defeat.

This is not as dangerous as it might, at first, seem. The other party to
the bet is bound by the ironclad codes of Wolf to inflict no permanent
physical damage (no injury that will not heal with three suncourses).
But from sunrise to sunset, any torment or painful ingenuity which the
half-human mentality of Wolf can devise must be endured.

The man who can outthink the torture of the moment, the man who can hold
in his mind the single thought of his goal--that man can claim the
stakes he has set, as well as other concessions made traditional.

The silence grew in the hall. Dallisa had straightened and was watching
me intently, her lips parted and the tip of a little red tongue visible
between her teeth. The only sound was the tiny crunching as the fat
woman nibbled at nuts and cast their shells into the brazier. Even the
child on the steps had abandoned her game with the crystal dice, and sat
looking up at me with her mouth open. Finally Kyral demanded, "Your
stakes?"

"Tell me all you know of Rakhal Sensar and keep silence about me in
Shainsa."

"By the red shadow," Kyral burst out, "you have courage, Rascar!"

"Say only yes or no!" I retorted.

Rebuked, he fell silent. Dallisa leaned forward and again, for some
unknown reason, I thought of a girl with hair like spun black glass.

Kyral raised his hand. "I say no. I have blood-feud with Rakhal and I
will not sell his death to another. Further, I believe you are Terran
and I will not deal with you. And finally, you have twice saved my life
and I would find small pleasure in torturing you. I say no. Drink again
with me and we part without a quarrel."

Beaten, I turned to go.

"Wait," said Dallisa.

She stood up and came down from the dais, slowly this time, walking with
dignity to the rhythm of her musically clashing chains. "I have a
quarrel with this man."

I started to say that I did not quarrel with women, and stopped myself.
The Terran concept of chivalry has no equivalent on Wolf.

She looked at me with her dark poison-berry eyes, icy and level and
amused, and said, "I will bet _shegri_ with you, unless you fear me,
Rascar."

And I knew suddenly that if I lost, I might better have trusted myself
to Kyral and his whip, or to the wild beast-things of the mountains.




CHAPTER EIGHT


I slept little that night.

There is a tale told in Daillon of a _shegri_ where the challenger was
left in a room alone, where he was blindfolded and told to await the
beginning of the torment.

Somewhere in those dark hours of waiting, between the unknown and the
unexpected, the hours of telling over to himself the horrors of past
_shegri_, the torture of anticipation alone became the unbearable. A
little past noon he collapsed in screams of horror and died raving,
unmarred, untouched.

Daybreak came slowly, and with the first streamers of light came Dallisa
and the white _chak_, maliciously uninvolved, sniffing his way through
the shabby poverty of the great hall. They took me to a lower dungeon
where the slant of the sunlight was less visible. Dallisa said, "The sun
has risen."

I said nothing. Any word may be interpreted as a confession of defeat. I
resolved to give them no excuse. But my skin crawled and I had that
peculiar prickling sensation where the hair on my forearms was
bristling erect with tension and fear.

Dallisa said to the _chak_, "His gear was not searched. See that he has
swallowed no anesthetic drugs."

Briefly I gave her credit for thoroughness, even while I wondered in a
split second why I had not thought of this. Drugs could blur
consciousness, at least, or suspend reality. The white nonhuman sprang
forward and pinioned my arms with one strong, spring-steel forearm. With
his other hand he forced my jaws open. I felt the furred fingers at the
back of my throat, gagged, struggled briefly and doubled up in
uncontrollable retching.

Dallisa's poison-berry-eyes regarded me levelly as I struggled upright,
fighting off the dizzy sickness of disgust. Something about her
impassive face stopped me cold. I had been, momentarily, raging with
fury and humiliation. Now I realized that this had been a calculated,
careful gesture to make me lose my temper and thus sap my resistance.

If she could set me to fighting, if she could make me spend my strength
in rage, my own imagination would fight on her side to make me lose
control before the end. Swimming in the glare of her eyes, I realized
she had never thought for a moment that I had taken any drug. Acting on
Kyral's hint that I was a Terran, she was taking advantage of the
well-known Terran revulsion for the nonhuman.

"Blindfold him," Dallisa commanded, then instantly countermanded that:
"No, strip him first."

The _chak_ ripped off shirtcloak, shirt, shoes, breeches, and I had my
first triumph when the wealed clawmarks on my shoulders--worse, if
possible, than those which disfigured my face--were laid bare. The
_chak_ screwed up his muzzle in fastidious horror, and Dallisa looked
shaken. I could almost read her thoughts:

_If he endured this, what hope have I to make him cry mercy?_

Briefly I remembered the months I lay feverish and half dead, waiting
for the wounds Rakhal had inflicted to heal, those months when I had
believed that nothing would ever hurt me again, that I had known the
worst of all suffering. But I had been younger then.

Dallisa had picked up two small sharp knives. She weighed them,
briefly, gesturing to the _chak_. Without resisting, I let myself be
manhandled backward, spreadeagled against the wall.

Dallisa commanded, "Drive the knives through his palms to the wall!"

My hands twitched convulsively, anticipating the slash of steel, and my
throat closed in spasmodic dread. This was breaking the compact, bound
as they were not to inflict physical damage. I opened my lips to protest
this breaking of the bond of honor and met her dark blazing stare, and
suddenly the sweat broke out on my forehead. I had placed myself wholly
in their hands, and as Kyral had said, they were in no way bound by
honor to respect a pledge to a Terran!

Then, as my hands clenched into fists, I forced myself to relax. This
was a bluff, a mental trick to needle me into breaking the pact and
pleading for mercy. I set my lips, spread my palms wide against the wall
and waited impassively.

She said in her lilting voice, "Take care not to sever the tendons, or
his hands would be paralyzed and he may claim we have broken our
compact."

The points of the steel, razor-sharp, touched my palms, and I felt blood
run down my hand before the pain. With an effort that turned my face
white, I did not pull away from the point. The knives drove deeper.

Dallisa gestured to the _chak_. The knives dropped. Two pinpricks, a
quarter of an inch deep, stung in my palm. I had outbluffed her. Had I?

If I had expected her to betray disappointment--and I had--I was
disappointed. Abruptly, as if the game had wearied her already, she
gestured, and I could not hold back a gasp as my arms were hauled up
over my head, twisted violently around one another and trussed with thin
cords that bit deep into the flesh. Then the rough upward pull almost
jerked my shoulders from their sockets and I heard the giant _chak_
grunt with effort as I was hauled upward until my feet barely, on
tiptoe, touched the floor.

"Blindfold him," said Dallisa languidly, "so that he cannot watch the
ascent of the sun or its descent or know what is to come."

A dark softness muffled my eyes. After a little I heard her steps
retreating. My arms, wrenched overhead and numbed with the bite of the
cords, were beginning to hurt badly now. But it wasn't too bad. Surely
she did not mean that this should be all....

Sternly I controlled my imagination, taking a tight rein on my thoughts.
There was only one way to meet this--hanging blind and racked in space,
my toes barely scrabbling at the floor--and that was to take each thing
as it came and not look ahead for an instant. First of all I tried to
get my feet under me, and discovered that by arching upwards to my
fullest height I could bear my weight on tiptoe and ease, a little, the
dislocating ache in my armpits by slackening the overhead rope.

But after a little, a cramping pain began to flare through the arches of
my feet, and it became impossible to support my weight on tiptoe. I
jarred down with violent strain on my wrists and wrenched shoulders
again, and for a moment the shooting agony was so intense that I nearly
screamed. I thought I heard a soft breath near me.

After a little it subsided to a sharp ache, then to a dull ache, and
then to the violent cramping pain again, and once more I struggled to
get my toes under me. I realized that by allowing my toes barely to
touch the floor they had doubled and tripled the pain by the tantalizing
hope of, if not momentary relief, at least the alteration of one pain
for another.

I haven't the faintest idea, even now, how long I repeated that
agonizing cycle: struggle for a toehold on rough stone, scraping my bare
feet raw; arch upward with all my strength to release for a few moments
the strain on my wrenched shoulders; the momentary illusion of relief as
I found my balance and the pressure lightened on my wrists.

Then the slow creeping, first of an ache, then of a pain, then of a
violent agony in the arches of feet and calves. And, delayed to the last
endurable moment, that final terrible anguish when the drop of my full
weight pulled shoulder and wrist and elbow joints with that
bone-shattering jerk.

I started once to estimate how much time had passed, how many hours had
crawled by, then checked myself, for that was imminent madness. But once
the process had begun my brain would not abandon and I found myself,
with compulsive precision, counting off the seconds and the minutes in
each cycle: stretch upward, release the pressure on the arms; the
beginning of pain in calves and arches and toes; the creeping of pain up
ribs and loins and shoulders; the sudden jarring drop on the arms again.

My throat was intolerably dry. Under other circumstances I might have
estimated the time by the growth of hunger and thirst, but the rough
treatment I had received made this impossible. There were other,
unmentionable, humiliating pains.

After a time, to bolster my flagging courage, I found myself thinking of
all the ways it might have been worse. I had heard of a _shegrin_
exposed to the bite of poisonous--not fatal, but painfully
poisonous--insects, and to the worrying of the small gnawing rodents
which can be trained to bite and tear. Or I might have been branded....

I banished the memory with the powerful exorcism; the man in Daillon
whose anticipation, alone, of a torture which never came, had broken his
mind. There was only one way to conquer this, and that was to act as if
the present moment was the only one, and never for a moment to forget
that the strongest of compacts bound them not to harm me, that the end
of this was fixed by sunset.

Gradually, however, all such rational thoughts blurred in a semidelirium
of thirst and pain, narrowing to a red blaze of agony across my shoulder
blades. I eased up on my toes again.

White-hot pain blazed through my feet. The rough stone on which my toes
sank had been covered with metal and I smelled scorching flesh, jerking
up my feet with a wordless snarl of rage and fury, hanging in agony by
my shoulders alone.

And then I lost consciousness, at least for several moments, for when I
became aware again, through the nightmare of pain, my toes were resting
lightly and securely on cold stone. The smell of burned flesh remained,
and the painful stinging in my toes. Mingled with that smell was a drift
of perfume close by.

Dallisa murmured, "I do not wish to break our bargain by damaging your
feet. It's only a little touch of fire to keep you from too much
security in resting them."

I felt the taste of blood mingle in my mouth with the sour taste of
vomit. I felt delirious, lightheaded. After another eternity I wondered
if I had really heard Dallisa's lilting croon or whether it was a
nightmare born of feverish pain:

_Plead with me. A word, only a word and I will release you, strong man,
scarred man. Perhaps I shall demand only a little space in your arms.
Would not such doom be light upon you? Perhaps I shall set you free to
seek Rakhal if only to plague Kyral. A word, only a word from you. A
word, only a word from you...._

It died into an endlessly echoing whisper. Swaying, blinded, I wondered
why I endured. I drew a dry tongue over lips, salty and bloody, and
nightmarishly considered yielding, winning my way somehow around
Dallisa. Or knocking her suddenly senseless and escaping--I, who need
not be bound by Wolf's codes either. I fumbled with a stiff shape of
words.

And a breath saved me, a soft, released breath of anticipation. It was
another trick. I swayed, limp and racked. I was not Race Cargill now. I
was a dead man hanging in chains, swinging, filthy vultures pecking at
my dangling feet. I was....

The sound of boots rang on the stone and Kyral's voice, low and bitter,
demanded somewhere behind me, "What have you done with him?"

She did not answer, but I heard her chains clash lightly and imagined
her gesture. Kyral muttered, "Women have no genius at any torture
except...." His voice faded out into great distances. Their words came
to me over a sort of windy ringing, like the howling of lost men, dying
in the snowfast passes of the mountains.

"Speak up, you fool, he can't hear you now."

"If you have let him faint, you are clumsy!"

"_You_ talk of clumsiness!" Dallisa's voice, even thinned by the
nightmare ringing in my head, held concentrated scorn. "Perhaps I shall
release him, to find Rakhal when you failed! The Terrans have a price on
Rakhal's head, too. And at least this man will not confuse himself with
his prey!"

"If you think I would let you bargain with a _Terranan_--"

Dallisa cried passionately, "You trade with the Terrans! How would you
stop me, then?"

"I trade with them because I must. But for a matter involving the honor
of the Great House--"

"The Great House whose steps you would never have climbed, except for
Rakhal!" Dallisa sounded as if she were chewing her words in little
pieces and spitting them at Kyral. "Oh, you were clever to take us both
as your consorts! You did not know it was Rakhal's doing, did you? Hate
the Terrans, then!" She spat an obscenity at him. "Enjoy your hate,
wallow in hating, and in the end all Shainsa will fall prey to the
Toymaker, like Miellyn."

"If you speak that name again," said Kyral very low, "I will kill you."

"Like Miellyn, Miellyn, Miellyn," Dallisa repeated deliberately. "You
fool, Rakhal knew nothing of Miellyn!"

"He was seen--"

"With _me_, you fool! With _me_! You cannot yet tell twin from twin?
Rakhal came to _me_ to ask news of her!"

Kyral cried out hoarsely, like a man in anguish, "Why didn't you tell
me?"

"You don't really have to ask, do you, Kyral?"

"You bitch!" said Kyral. "You filthy bitch!" I heard the sound of a
blow. The next moment Kyral ripped the blindfold from my eyes and I
blinked in the blaze of light. My arms were wholly numb now, twisted
above my head, but the jar of his touch sent fresh pain racing through
me. Kyral's face swam out of the blaze of hell. "If that is true, then
this is a damnable farce, Dallisa. You have lost our chance of learning
what he knows of Miellyn."

"What _he_ knows?" Dallisa lowered her hand from her face, where a
bruise was already darkening.

"Miellyn has twice appeared when I was with him. Loose him, Dallisa, and
bargain with him. What we know of Rakhal for what he knows of Miellyn."

"If you think I would let you bargain with _Terranan_," she mocked.
"Weakling, this quarrel is _mine_! You fool, the others in the caravan
will give me news, if you will not! _Where is Cuinn?_"

From a million miles away Kyral laughed. "You've slipped the wrong hawk,
Dallisa. The catmen killed him." His skean flicked loose. He climbed to
a perch near the rope at my wrists. "Bargain with me, Rascar!"

I coughed, unable to speak, and Kyral insisted, "Will you bargain? End
this damned woman's farce which makes a mock of _shegri_?"

The slant of sun told me there was light left. I found a shred of voice,
not knowing what I was going to say until I had said it, irrevocably.
"This is between Dallisa and me."

Kyral glared at me in mounting rage. With four strides he was out of the
room, flinging back a harsh, furious "I hope you kill each other!" and
the door slammed.

Dallisa's face swam red, and again as before, I knew the battle which
was joined between us would be fought to a dreadful end. She touched my
chest lightly, but the touch jolted excruciating pain through my
shoulders.

"Did you kill Cuinn?"

I wondered, wearily, what this presaged.

"Did you?" In a passion, she cried, "Answer! Did you kill him?" She
struck me hard, and where the touch had been pain, the blow was a blaze
of white agony. I fainted.

"Answer!" She struck me again and the white blaze jolted me back to
consciousness. "Answer me! Answer!" Each cry bought a blow until I
gasped finally, "He signaled ... set catmen on us...."

"No!" She stood staring at me and her white face was a death mask in
which the eyes lived. She screamed wildly and the huge _chak_ came
running.

"Cut him down! Cut him down! Cut him down!"

A knife slashed the rope and I slumped, falling in a bone-breaking
huddle to the floor. My arms were still twisted over my head. The _chak_
cut the ropes apart, pulled my arms roughly back into place, and I
gagged with the pain as the blood began flowing painfully through the
chafed and swollen hands.

And then I lost consciousness. More or less permanently, this time.




CHAPTER NINE


When I came to again I was lying with my head in Dallisa's lap, and the
reddish color of sunset was in the room. Her thighs were soft under my
head, and for an instant I wondered if, in delirium, I had conceded to
her. I muttered, "Sun ... not down...."

She bent her face to mine, whispering, "Hush. Hush."

It was heaven, and I drifted off again. After a moment I felt a cup
against my lips.

"Can you swallow this?"

I could and did. I couldn't taste it yet, but it was cold and wet and
felt heavenly trickling down my throat. She bent and looked into my
eyes, and I felt as if I were falling into those reddish and stormy
depths. She touched my scarred mouth with a light finger. Suddenly my
head cleared and I sat upright.

"Is this a trick to force me into calling my bet?"

She recoiled as if I had struck her, then the trace of a smile flitted
around her red mouth. Yes, between us it was battle. "You are right to
be suspicious, I suppose. But if I tell you what I know of Rakhal, will
you trust me then?"

I looked straight at her and said, "No."

Surprisingly, she threw back her head and laughed. I flexed my freed
wrists cautiously. The skin was torn away and chafed, and my arms ached
to the bone. When I moved harsh lances of pain drove through my chest.

"Well, until sunset I have no right to ask you to trust me," said
Dallisa when she had done laughing. "And since you are bound by my
command until the last ray has fallen, I command that you lay your head
upon my knees."

I blazed, "You are making a game of me!"

"Is that my privilege? Do you refuse?"

"Refuse?" It was not yet sunset. This might be a torture more complex
than any which had yet greeted me. From the scarlet glint in her eyes I
felt she was playing with me, as the cat-things of the forest play with
their helpless victims. My mouth twitched in a grimace of humiliation as
I lowered myself obediently until my head rested on her fur-clad knees.

She murmured, smiling, "Is this so unbearable, then?"

I said nothing. Never, never for an instant could I forget that--all
human, all woman as she seemed--Dallisa's race was worn and old when the
Terran Empire had not left their home star. The mind of Wolf, which has
mingled with the nonhuman since before the beginnings of recorded time,
is unfathomable to an outsider. I was better equipped than most Earthmen
to keep pace with its surface acts, but I could never pretend to
understand its deeper motivations.

It works on complex and irrational logic. Mischief is an integral part
of it. Even the deadly blood-feud with Rakhal had begun with an
overelaborate practical joke--which had lost the Service, incidentally,
several thousand credits worth of spaceship.

And so I could not trust Dallisa for an instant. Yet it was wonderful to
lie here with my head resting against the perfumed softness of her body.

Then suddenly her arms were gripping me, frantic and hungry; the subdued
thing in her voice, her eyes, flamed out hot and wild. She was pressing
the whole length of her body to mine, breasts and thighs and long legs,
and her voice was hoarse.

"Is this torture too?"

Beneath the fur robe she was soft and white, and the subtle scent of her
hair seemed a deeper entrapment than any. Frail as she seemed, her arms
had the strength of steel, and pain blazed down my wrenched shoulders,
seared through the twisted wrists. Then I forgot the pain.

Over her shoulder the last dropping redness of the sun vanished and
plunged the room into orchid twilight.

I caught her wrists in my hands, prizing them backward, twisting them
upward over her head. I said thickly, "The sun's down." And then I
stopped her wild mouth with mine.

And I knew that the battle between us had reached climax and victory
simultaneously, and any question about who had won it was purely
academic.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the night sometime, while her dark head lay motionless on my
shoulder, I found myself staring into the darkness, wakeful. The
throbbing of my bruises had little to do with my sleeplessness; I was
remembering other chained girls from the old days in the Dry-towns, and
the honey and poison of them distilled into Dallisa's kisses. Her head
was very light on my shoulders, and she felt curiously insubstantial,
like a woman of feathers.

One of the tiny moons was visible through the slitted windows. I thought
of my rooms in the Terran Trade City, clean and bright and warm, and all
the nights when I had paced the floor, hating, filled to the teeth with
bitterness, longing for the windswept stars of the Dry-towns, the salt
smell of the winds and the musical clashing of the walk of the chained
women.

With a sting of guilt, I realized that I had half forgotten Juli and my
pledge to her and her misfortune which had freed me again, for this.

Yet I had won, and what they knew had narrowed my planet-wide search to
a pinpoint. Rakhal was in Charin.

I wasn't altogether surprised. Charin is the only city on Wolf, except
the Kharsa, where the Terran Empire has put down deep roots into the
planet, built a Trade City, a smaller spaceport. Like the Kharsa, it
lies within the circle of Terran law--and a million miles outside it.

A nonhuman town, inhabited largely by _chaks_, it is the core and center
of the resistance movement, a noisy town in a perpetual ferment. It was
the logical place for a renegade. I settled myself so that the ache in
my racked shoulders was less violent, and muttered, "Why Charin?"

Slight as the movement was, it roused Dallisa. She rolled over and
propped herself on her elbows, quoting drowsily, "The prey walks safest
at the hunter's door."

I stared at the square of violet moonlight, trying to fit together all
the pieces of the puzzle, and asked half aloud, "What prey and what
hunters?"

Dallisa didn't answer. I hadn't expected her to answer. I asked the real
question in my mind: "Why does Kyral hate Rakhal Sensar, when he doesn't
even know him by sight?"

"There are reasons," she said somberly. "One of them is Miellyn, my twin
sister. Kyral climbed the steps of the Great House by claiming us both
as his consorts. He is our father's son by another wife."

That explained much. Brother-and-sister marriages, not uncommon in the
Dry-towns, are based on expediency and suspicion, and are frequently,
though not always loveless. It explained Dallisa's taunts, and it partly
explained, only partly, why I found her in my arms. It did not explain
Rakhal's part in this mysterious intrigue, nor why Kyral had taken me
for Rakhal, (but only after he remembered seeing me in Terran clothing).

I wondered why it had never occurred to me before that I might be
mistaken for Rakhal. There was no close resemblance between us, but a
casual description would apply equally well to me or to Rakhal. My
height is unusual for a Terran--within an inch of Rakhal's own--and we
had roughly the same build, the same coloring. I had copied his walk,
imitated his mannerisms, since we were boys together.

And, blurring minor facial characteristics, there were the scars of the
_kifirgh_ on my mouth, cheeks, and shoulders. Anyone who did not know us
by sight, anyone who had known us by reputation from the days when we
had worked together in the Dry-towns, might easily take one of us for
the other. Even Juli had blurted, "You're so much like--" before
thinking better of it.

Other odd bits of the puzzle floated in my mind, stubbornly refusing to
take on recognizable patterns, the disappearance of a toy-seller; Juli's
hysterical babbling; the way the girl--Miellyn?--had vanished into a
shrine of Nebran; and the taunts of Dallisa and the old man about a
mysterious "Toymaker." And something, some random joggling of a memory,
in that eerie trading in the city of the Silent Ones. I knew all these
things fitted together somehow, but I had no real hope that Dallisa
could complete their pattern for me.

She said, with a vehemence that startled me, "Miellyn is only the
excuse! Kyral hates Rakhal because Rakhal will compromise and because
he'll fight!"

She rolled over and pressed herself against me in the darkness. Her
voice trembled. "Race, our world is dying. We can't stand against Terra.
And there are other things, worse things."

I sat up, surprised to find myself defending Terra to this girl. After
all these years I was back in my own world. And yet I heard myself say
quietly, "The Terrans aren't exploiting Wolf. We haven't abolished the
rule of Shainsa. We've changed nothing."

It was true. Terra held Wolf by compact, not conquest. They paid, and
paid generously, for the lease of the lands where their Trade Cities
would rise, and stepped beyond them only when invited to do so.

"We let any city or state that wants to keep its independence govern
itself until it collapses, Dallisa. And they do collapse after a
generation or so. Very few primitive planets can hold out against us.
The people themselves get tired of living under feudal or theocratic
systems, and they beg to be taken into the Empire. That's all."

"But that's just it," Dallisa argued. "You give the people all those
things we used to give them, and you do it better. Just by being here,
you are killing the Dry-towns. They're turning to you and leaving us,
and you let them do it."

I shook my head. "We've kept the Terran Peace for centuries. What do you
expect? Should we give you arms, planes, bombs, weapons to hold your
slaves down?"

"Yes!" she flared at me. "The Dry-towns have ruled Wolf
since--since--you, you can't even imagine how long! And we made compact
with you to trade here--"

"And we have rewarded you by leaving you untouched," I said quietly.
"But we have not forbidden the Dry-towns to come into the Empire and
work with Terra."

She said bitterly, "Men like Kyral will die first," and pressed her face
helplessly against me. "And I will die with them. Miellyn broke away,
but I cannot! Courage is what I lack. Our world is rotten, Race, rotten
all through, and I'm as rotten as the core of it. I could have killed
you today, and I'm here in your arms. Our world is rotten, but I've no
confidence that the new world will be better!"

I put my hand under her chin, and looked down gravely into her face,
only a pale oval in the darkness. There was nothing I could say; she had
said it all, and truthfully. I had hated and yearned and starved for
this, and when I found it, it turned salty and bloody on my lips, like
Dallisa's despairing kisses. She ran her fingers over the scars on my
face, then gripped her small thin hands around my wrists so fiercely
that I grunted protest.

"You will not forget me," she said in her strangely lilting voice. "You
will not forget me, although you were victorious." She twisted and lay
looking up at me, her eyes glowing faintly luminous in darkness. I knew
that she could see me as clearly as if it were day. "I think it was my
victory, not yours, Race Cargill."

Gently, on an impulse I could not explain, I picked up one delicate
wrist, then the other, unclasping the heavy jeweled bracelets. She let
out a stifled cry of dismay. And then I tossed the chains into a corner
before I drew her savagely into my arms again and forced her head back
under my mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

I said good-bye to her alone, in the reddish, windswept space before the
Great House. She pressed her head against my shoulder and whispered,
"Race, take me with you!"

For answer I only picked up her narrow wrists and turned them over on my
palm. The jeweled bracelets were clasped again around the thinly boned
joints, and on some self-punishing impulse she had shortened the chains
so that she could not even put her arms around me. I lifted the punished
wrists to my mouth and kissed them gently.

"You don't want to leave, Dallisa."

I was desperately sorry for her. She would go down with her dying world,
proud and cold and with no place in the new one. She kissed me and I
tasted blood, her thin fettered body straining wildly against me, shaken
with tearing, convulsive sobs. Then she turned and fled back into the
shadow of the great dark house.

I never saw her again.




CHAPTER TEN


A few days later I found myself nearing the end of the trail.

It was twilight in Charin, hot and reeking with the gypsy glare of fires
which burned, smoking, at the far end of the Street of the Six
Shepherds. I crouched in the shadow of a wall, waiting.

My skin itched from the dirty shirtcloak I hadn't changed in days.
Shabbiness is wise in nonhuman parts, and Dry-towners think too much of
water to waste much of it in superfluous washing anyhow. I scratched
unobtrusively and glanced cautiously down the street.

It seemed empty, except for a few sodden derelicts sprawled in
doorways--the Street of the Six Shepherds is a filthy slum--but I made
sure my skean was loose. Charin is not a particularly safe town, even
for Dry-towners, and especially not for Earthmen, at any time.

Even with what Dallisa had told me, the search had been difficult.
Charin is not Shainsa. In Charin, where human and nonhuman live closer
together than anywhere else on the planet, information about such men as
Rakhal can be bought, but the policy is to let the buyer beware. That's
fair enough, because the life of the seller has a way of not being worth
much afterward, either.

A dirty, dust-laden wind was blowing up along the street, heavy with
strange smells. The pungent reek of incense from a street-shrine was in
the smells. The heavy, acrid odor that made my skin crawl. In the hills
behind Charin, the Ghost Wind was rising.

Borne on this wind, the Ya-men would sweep down from the mountains, and
everything human or nearly human would scatter in their path. They would
range through the quarter all night, and in the morning they would melt
away, until the Ghost Wind blew again. At any other time, I would
already have taken cover. I fancied that I could hear, borne on the
wind, the faraway yelping, and envision the plumed, taloned figures
which would come leaping down the street.

In that moment, the quiet of the street split asunder.

From somewhere a girl's voice screamed in shrill pain or panic. Then I
saw her, dodging between two of the chinked pebble-houses. She was a
child, thin and barefoot, a long tangle of black hair flying loose as
she darted and twisted to elude the lumbering fellow at her heels. His
outstretched paw jerked cruelly at her slim wrist.

The little girl screamed and wrenched herself free and threw herself
straight on me, wrapping herself around my neck with the violence of a
storm wind. Her hair got in my mouth and her small hands gripped at my
back like a cat's flexed claws.

"Oh, help me," she gasped between sobs. "Don't let him get me, don't."
And even in that broken plea I took it in that the little ragamuffin did
not speak the jargon of that slum, but the pure speech of Shainsa.

What I did then was as automatic as if it had been Juli. I pulled the
kid loose, shoved her behind me, and scowled at the brute who lurched
toward us.

"Make yourself scarce," I advised. "We don't chase little girls where I
come from. Haul off, now."

The man reeled. I smelled the rankness of his rags as he thrust one
grimy paw at the girl. I never was the hero type, but I'd started
something which I had to carry through. I thrust myself between them and
put my hand on the skean again.

"You--you Dry-towner." The man set up a tipsy howl, and I sucked in my
breath. Now I was in for it. Unless I got out of there damned fast, I'd
lose what I'd come all the way to Charin to find.

I felt like handing the girl over. For all I knew, the bully could be
her father and she was properly in line for a spanking. This wasn't any
of my business. My business lay at the end of the street, where Rakhal
was waiting at the fires. He wouldn't be there long. Already the smell
of the Ghost Wind was heavy and harsh, and little flurries of sand went
racing along the street, lifting the flaps of the doorways.

But I did nothing so sensible. The big lunk made a grab at the girl, and
I whipped out my skean and pantomimed.

"Get going!"

"Dry-towner!" He spat out the word like filth, his pig-eyes narrowing to
slits. "Son of the Ape! _Earthman!_"

"_Terranan!_" Someone took up the howl. There was a stir, a rustle, all
along the street that had seemed empty, and from nowhere, it seemed, the
space in front of me was crowded with shadowy forms, human and
otherwise.

"Earthman!"

I felt the muscles across my belly knotting into a band of ice. I didn't
believe I'd given myself away as an Earthman. The bully was using the
time-dishonored tactic of stirring up a riot in a hurry, but just the
same I looked quickly round, hunting a path of escape.

"Put your skean in his guts, Spilkar! Grab him!"

"Hai-ai! Earthman! _Hai-ai!_"

It was the last cry that made me panic. Through the sultry glare at the
end of the street, I could see the plumed, taloned figures of the
Ya-men, gliding through the banners of smoke. The crowd melted open.

I didn't stop to reflect on the fact--suddenly very obvious--that Rakhal
couldn't have been at the fires at all, and that my informant had led me
into an open trap, a nest of Ya-men already inside Charin. The crowd
edged back and muttered, and suddenly I made my choice. I whirled,
snatched up the girl in my arms and ran straight toward the advancing
figures of the Ya-men.

Nobody followed me. I even heard a choked shout that sounded like a
warning. I heard the yelping shrieks of the Ya-men grow to a wild howl,
and at the last minute, when their stiff rustling plumes loomed only a
few yards away, I dived sidewise into an alley, stumbled on some rubbish
and spilled the girl down.

"Run, kid!"

She shook herself like a puppy climbing out of water. Her small fingers
closed like a steel trap on my wrist. "This way," she urged in a hasty
whisper, and I found myself plunging out the far end of the alley and
into the shelter of a street-shrine. The sour stink of incense smarted
in my nostrils, and I could hear the yelping of the Ya-men as they
leaped and rustled down the alley, their cold and poisonous eyes
searching out the recess where I crouched with the girl.

"Here," she panted, "stand close to me on the stone--" I drew back,
startled.

"Oh, don't stop to argue," she whimpered. "Come _here_!"

"_Hai-ai!_ Earthman! There he is!"

The girl's arms flung round me again. I felt her slight, hard body
pressing on mine and she literally hauled me toward the pattern of
stones at the center of the shrine. I wouldn't have been human if I
hadn't caught her closer yet.

The world reeled. The street disappeared in a cone of spinning lights,
stars danced crazily, and I plunged down through a widening gulf of
empty space, locked in the girl's arms. I fell, spun, plunged head over
heels through tilting lights and shadows that flung us through
eternities of freefall. The yelping of the Ya-men whirled away in
unimaginable distances, and for a second I felt the unmerciful blackout
of a power dive, with blood breaking from my nostrils and filling my
mouth.




CHAPTER ELEVEN


Lights flared in my eyes.

I was standing solidly on my feet in the street-shrine, but the street
was gone. Coils of incense still smudged the air. The God squatted
toadlike in his recess. The girl was hanging limp, locked in my clenched
arms. As the floor straightened under my feet I staggered, thrown off
balance by the sudden return of the girl's weight, and grabbed blindly
for support.

"Give her to me," said a voice, and the girl's sagging body was lifted
from my arms. A strong hand grasped my elbow. I found a chair beneath my
knees and sank gratefully into it.

"The transmission isn't smooth yet between such distant terminals," the
voice remarked. "I see Miellyn has fainted again. A weakling, the girl,
but useful."

I spat blood, trying to get the room in focus. For I was inside a room,
a room of some translucent substance, windowless, a skylight high above
me, through which pink daylight streamed. Daylight--and it had been
midnight in Charin! I'd come halfway around the planet in a few seconds!

From somewhere I heard the sound of hammering, tiny, bell-like
hammering, the chiming of a fairy anvil. I looked up and saw a man--a
man?--watching me.

On Wolf you see all kinds of human, half-human and nonhuman life, and I
consider myself something of an expert on all three. But I had never
seen anyone, or anything, who so closely resembled the human and so
obviously wasn't. He, or it, was tall and lean, man-shaped but oddly
muscled, a vague suggestion of something less than human in the lean
hunch of his posture.

Manlike, he wore green tight-fitting trunks and a shirt of green fur
that revealed bulging biceps where they shouldn't be, and angular planes
where there should have been swelling muscles. The shoulders were high,
the neck unpleasantly sinuous, and the face, a little narrower than
human, was handsomely arrogant, with a kind of wary alert mischief that
was the least human thing about him.

He bent, tilted the girl's inert body on to a divan of some sort, and
turned his back on her, lifting his hand in an impatient, and
unpleasantly reminiscent, gesture.

The tinkling of the little hammers stopped as if a switch had been
disconnected.

"Now," said the nonhuman, "we can talk."

Like the waif, he spoke Shainsan, and spoke it with a better accent than
any nonhuman I had ever known--so well that I looked again to be
certain. I wasn't too dazed to answer in the same tongue, but I couldn't
keep back a spate of questions:

"What happened? Who are you? What is this place?"

The nonhuman waited, crossing his hands--quite passable hands, if you
didn't look too closely at what should have been nails--and bent forward
in a sketchy gesture.

"Do not blame Miellyn. She acted under orders. It was imperative you be
brought here tonight, and we had reason to believe you might ignore an
ordinary summons. You were clever at evading our surveillance, for a
time. But there would not be two Dry-towners in Charin tonight who would
dare the Ghost Wind. Your reputation does you justice, Rakhal Sensar."

_Rakhal Sensar!_ Once again Rakhal!

Shaken, I pulled a rag from my pocket and wiped blood from my mouth. I'd
figured out, in Shainsa, why the mistake was logical. And here in Charin
I'd been hanging around in Rakhal's old haunts, covering his old trails.
Once again, mistaken identity was natural.

Natural or not, I wasn't going to deny it. If these were Rakhal's
enemies, my real identity should be kept as an ace in reserve which
might--just might--get me out alive again. If they were his friends ...
well, I could only hope that no one who knew him well by sight would
walk in on me.

"We knew," the nonhuman continued, "that if you remained where you
were, the _Terranan_ Cargill would have made his arrest. We know about
your quarrel with Cargill, among other things, but we did not consider
it necessary that you should fall into his hands at present."

I was puzzled. "I still don't understand. Exactly where am I?"

"This is the mastershrine of Nebran."

_Nebran!_

The stray pieces of the puzzle suddenly jolted into place. Kyral had
warned me, not knowing he was doing it. I hastily imitated the gesture
Kyral had made, gabbling a few words of an archaic charm.

Like every Earthman who's lived on Wolf more than a tourist season, I'd
seen faces go blank and impassive at mention of the Toad God. Rumor made
his spies omnipresent, his priests omniscient, his anger all-powerful. I
had believed about a tenth of what I had heard, or less.

The Terran Empire has little to say to planetary religions, and Nebran's
cult is a remarkably obscure one, despite the street-shrines on every
corner. Now I was in his mastershrine, and the device which had brought
me here was beyond doubt a working model of a matter transmitter.

A matter transmitter, a working model--the words triggered memory.
Rakhal was after it.

"And who," I asked slowly, "are you, Lord?"

The green-clad creature hunched thin shoulders again in a ceremonious
gesture. "I am called Evarin. Humble servant of Nebran and yourself," he
added, but there was no humility in his manner. "I am called the
Toymaker."

_Evarin._ That was another name given weight by rumor. A breath of
gossip in a thieves market. A scrawled word on smudged paper. A blank
folder in Terran Intelligence. Another puzzle-piece snapped into
place--_Toymaker_!

The girl on the divan sat up suddenly passing slim hands over her
disheveled hair. "Did I faint, Evarin? I had to fight to get him into
the stone, and the patterns were not set straight in that terminal. You
must send one of the Little Ones to set them to rights. Toymaker, you
are not listening to me."

"Stop chattering, Miellyn," said Evarin indifferently. "You brought him
here, and that is all that matters. You aren't hurt?"

Miellyn pouted and looked ruefully at her bare bruised feet, patted the
wrinkles in her ragged frock with fastidious fingers. "My poor feet,"
she mourned, "they are black and blue with the cobbles and my hair is
filled with sand and tangles! Toymaker, what way was this to send me to
entice a man? Any man would have come quickly, quickly, if he had seen
me looking lovely, but you--you send me in rags!"

She stamped a small bare foot. She was not merely as young as she had
looked in the street. Though immature and underdeveloped by Terran
standards, she had a fair figure for a Dry-town woman. Her rags fell now
in graceful folds. Her hair was spun black glass, and I--I saw what the
rags and the confusion in the filthy street had kept me from seeing
before.

It was the girl of the spaceport cafe, the girl who had appeared and
vanished in the eerie streets of Canarsa.

Evarin was regarding her with what, in a human, might have been rueful
impatience. He said, "You know you enjoyed yourself, as always, Miellyn.
Run along and make yourself beautiful again, little nuisance."

The girl danced out of the room, and I was just as glad to see her go.
The Toymaker motioned to me.

"This way," he directed, and led me through a different door. The
offstage hammering I had heard, tiny bell tones like a fairy xylophone,
began again as the door opened, and we passed into a workroom which made
me remember nursery tales from a half-forgotten childhood on Terra. For
the workers were tiny, gnarled _trolls_!

They were _chaks_. _Chaks_ from the polar mountains, dwarfed and furred
and half-human, with witchlike faces and great golden eyes, and I had
the curious feeling that if I looked hard enough I would see the little
toy-seller they had hunted out of the Kharsa. I didn't look. I figured I
was in enough trouble already.

Tiny hammers pattered on miniature anvils in a tinkling, jingling chorus
of musical clinks and taps. Golden eyes focused like lenses over winking
jewels and gimcracks. Busy elves. Makers of toys!

Evarin jerked his shoulders with an imperative gesture. I followed him
through a fairy workroom, but could not refrain from casting a lingering
look at the worktables. A withered leprechaun set eyes into the head of
a minikin hound. Furred fingers worked precious metals into invisible
filigree for the collarpiece of a dancing doll. Metallic feathers were
thrust with clockwork precision into the wings of a skeleton bird no
longer than my fingernail. The nose of the hound wabbled and sniffed,
the bird's wings quivered, the eyes of the little dancer followed my
footsteps.

Toys?

"This way," Evarin rapped, and a door slid shut behind us. The clinks
and taps grew faint, fainter, but never ceased.

My face must have betrayed more than conventional impassivity, for
Evarin smiled. "Now you know, Rakhal, why I am called Toymaker. Is it
not strange--the masterpriest of Nebran, a maker of Toys, and the shrine
of the Toad God a workshop for children's playthings?"

Evarin paused suggestively. They were obviously not children's
playthings and this was my cue to say so, but I avoided the trap. Evarin
opened a sliding panel and took out a doll.

She was perhaps the length of my longest finger, molded to the precise
proportions of a woman, and costumed after the bizarre fashion of the
Ardcarran dancing girls. Evarin touched no button or key that I could
see, but when he set the figure on its feet, it executed a whirling,
armtossing dance in a fast, tricky tempo.

"I am, in a sense, benevolent," Evarin murmured. He snapped his fingers
and the doll sank to her knees and poised there, silent. "Moreover, I
have the means and, let us say, the ability to indulge my small
fantasies.

"The little daughter of the President of the Federation of Trade Cities
on Samarra was sent such a doll recently. What a pity that Paolo
Arimengo was so suddenly impeached and banished!" The Toymaker clucked
his teeth commiseratingly. "Perhaps this small companion will compensate
the little Carmela for her adjustment to her new ... position."

He replaced the dancer and pulled down something like a whirligig. "This
might interest you," he mused, and set it spinning. I stared at the
pattern of lights that flowed and disappeared, melting in and out of
visible shadows. Suddenly I realized what the thing was doing. I
wrested my eyes away with an effort. Had there been a lapse of seconds
or minutes? Had Evarin spoken?

Evarin arrested the compelling motion with one finger. "Several of these
pretty playthings are available to the children of important men," he
said absently. "An import of value for our exploited and impoverished
world. Unfortunately they are, perhaps, a little ... ah, obvious. The
incidence of nervous breakdowns is, ah, interfering with their sale. The
children, of course, are unaffected, and love them." Evarin set the
hypnotic wheel moving again, glanced sidewise at me, then set it
carefully back.

"Now"--Evarin's voice, hard with the silkiness of a cat's snarl, clawed
the silence--"we'll talk business."

I turned, composing my face. Evarin had something concealed in one hand,
but I didn't think it was a weapon. And if I'd known, I'd have had to
ignore it anyway.

"Perhaps you wonder how we recognized and found you?" A panel cleared in
the wall and became translucent. Confused flickers moved, dropped into
focus and I realized that the panel was an ordinary television screen
and I was looking into the well-known interior of the Cafe of Three
Rainbows in the Trade City of Charin.

By this time I was running low on curiosity and didn't wonder till much,
much later how televised pictures were transmitted around the curve of a
planet. Evarin sharpened the focus down on the long Earth-type bar where
a tall man in Terran clothes was talking to a pale-haired girl. Evarin
said, "By now, Race Cargill has decided, no doubt, that you fell into
his trap and into the hands of the Ya-men. He is off-guard now."

And suddenly the whole thing seemed so unbearably, illogically funny
that my shoulders shook with the effort to keep back dangerous laughter.
Since I'd landed in Charin, I'd taken great pains to avoid the Trade
City, or anyone who might have associated me with it. And Rakhal,
somehow aware of this, had conveniently filled up the gap. By posing as
me.

It wasn't nearly as difficult as it sounded. I had found that out in
Shainsa. Charin is a long, long way from the major Trade City near the
Kharsa. I hadn't a single intimate friend there, or within hundreds of
miles, to see through the imposture. At most, there were half a dozen of
the staff that I'd once met, or had a drink with, eight or ten years
ago.

Rakhal could speak perfect Standard when he chose; if he lapsed into
Dry-town idiom, that too was in my known character. I had no doubt he
was making a great success of it all, probably doing much better with my
identity than I could ever have done with his.

Evarin rasped, "Cargill meant to leave the planet. What stopped him? You
could be of use to us, Rakhal. But not with this blood-feud unsettled."

That needed no elucidation. No Wolfan in his right mind will bargain
with a Dry-towner carrying an unresolved blood-feud. By law and custom,
declared blood-feud takes precedence over any other business, public or
private, and is sufficient excuse for broken promises, neglected duties,
theft, even murder.

"We want it settled once and for all." Evarin's voice was low and
unhurried. "And we aren't above weighting the scales. This Cargill can,
and has, posed as a Dry-towner, undetected. We don't like Earthmen who
can do that. In settling your feud, you will be aiding us, and removing
a danger. We would be ... grateful."

He opened his closed hand, displaying something small, curled, inert.

"Every living thing emits a characteristic pattern of electrical nerve
impulses. We have ways of recording those impulses, and we have had you
and Cargill under observation for a long time. We've had plenty of
opportunity to key this Toy to Cargill's pattern."

On his palm the curled thing stirred, spread wings. A fledgling bird lay
there, small soft body throbbing slightly. Half-hidden in a ruff of
metallic feathers I glimpsed a grimly elongated beak. The pinions were
feathered with delicate down less than a quarter of an inch long. They
beat with delicate insistence against the Toymaker's prisoning fingers.

"This is not dangerous to you. Press here"--he showed me--"and if Race
Cargill is within a certain distance--and it is up to you to be _within_
that distance--it will find him, and kill him. Unerringly, inescapably,
untraceably. We will not tell you the critical distance. And we will
give you three days."

He checked my startled exclamation with a gesture. "Of course this is a
test. Within the hour Cargill will receive a warning. We want no
incompetents who must be helped too much! Nor do we want cowards! If you
fail, or release the bird at a distance too great, or evade the
test"--the green inhuman malice in his eyes made me sweat--"we have made
another bird."

By now my brain was swimming, but I thought I understood the complex
inhuman logic involved. "The other bird is keyed to me?"

With slow contempt Evarin shook his head. "You? You are used to danger
and fond of a gamble. Nothing so simple! We have given you three days.
If, within that time, the bird you carry has not killed, the other bird
will fly. And it will kill. Rakhal, you have a wife."

Yes, Rakhal had a wife. They could threaten Rakhal's wife. And his wife
was my sister Juli.

Everything after that was anticlimax. Of course I had to drink with
Evarin, the elaborate formal ritual without which no bargain on Wolf is
concluded. He entertained me with gory and technical descriptions of the
way in which the birds, and other of his hellish Toys, did their
killing, and worse tasks.

Miellyn danced into the room and upset the exquisite solemnity of the
wine-ritual by perching on my knee, stealing a sip from my cup, and
pouting prettily when I paid her less attention than she thought she
merited. I didn't dare pay much attention, even when she whispered, with
the deliberate and thorough wantonness of a Dry-town woman of high-caste
who has flung aside her fetters, something about a rendezvous at the
Three Rainbows.

But eventually it was over and I stepped through a door that twisted
with a giddy blankness, and found myself outside a bare windowless wall
in Charin again, the night sky starred and cold. The acrid smell of the
Ghost Wind was thinning in the streets, but I had to crouch in a cranny
of the wall when a final rustling horde of Ya-men, the last of their
receding tide, rustled down the street. I found my way to my lodging in
a filthy _chak_ hostel, and threw myself down on the verminous bed.

Believe it or not, I slept.




CHAPTER TWELVE


An hour before dawn there was a noise in my room. I roused, my hand on
my skean. Someone or something was fumbling under the mattress where I
had thrust Evarin's bird. I struck out, encountered something warm and
breathing, and grappled with it in the darkness. A foul-smelling
something gripped over my mouth. I tore it away and struck hard with the
skean. There was a high shrilling. The gripping filth loosened and fell
away and something died on the floor.

I struck a light, retching in revulsion. It hadn't been human. There
wouldn't have been that much blood from a human. Not that color, either.

The _chak_ who ran the place came and gibbered at me. _Chaks_ have a
horror of blood and this one gave me to understand that my lease was up
then and there, no arguments, no refunds. He wouldn't even let me go
into his stone outbuilding to wash the foul stuff from my shirtcloak. I
gave up and fished under the mattress for Evarin's Toy.

The _chak_ got a glimpse of the embroideries on the silk in which it was
wrapped, and stood back, his loose furry lips hanging open, while I
gathered my few belongings together and strode out of the room. He would
not touch the coins I offered; I laid them on a chest and he let them
lie there, and as I went into the reddening morning they came flying
after me into the street.

I pulled the silk from the Toy and tried to make some sense from my
predicament. The little thing lay innocent and silent in my palm. It
wouldn't tell me whether it had been keyed to me, the real Cargill, some
time in the past, or to Rakhal, using my name and reputation in the
Terran Colony here at Charin.

If I pressed the stud it might play out this comedy of errors by hunting
down Rakhal, and all my troubles would be over. For a while, at least,
until Evarin found out what had happened. I didn't deceive myself that I
could carry the impersonation through another meeting.

On the other hand, if I pressed the stud, the bird might turn on me. And
then all my troubles would be over for good.

If I delayed past Evarin's deadline, and did nothing, the other bird in
his keeping would hunt down Juli and give her a swift and not too
painless death.

I spent most of the day in a _chak_ dive, juggling plans. Toys, innocent
and sinister. Spies, messengers. Toys which killed horribly. Toys which
could be controlled, perhaps, by the pliant mind of a child, and every
child hates its parents now and again!

Even in the Terran colony, who was safe? In Mack's very home, one of the
Magnusson youngsters had a shiny thing which might, or might not, be one
of Evarin's hellish Toys. Or was I beginning to think like a
superstitious Dry-towner?

Damn it, Evarin couldn't be infallible; he hadn't even recognized me as
Race Cargill! Or--suddenly the sweat broke out, again, on my
forehead--_or had he_? Had the whole thing been one of those sinister,
deadly and incomprehensible nonhuman jokes?

I kept coming to the same conclusion. Juli was in danger, but she was
half a world away. Rakhal was here in Charin. There was a child
involved--Juli's child. The first step was to get inside the Terran
colony and see how the land lay.

Charin is a city shaped like a crescent moon, encircling the small Trade
City: a miniature spaceport, a miniature skyscraper HQ, the clustered
dwellings of the Terrans who worked there, and those who lived with them
and supplied them with necessities, services and luxuries.

Entry from one to the other is through a guarded gateway, since this is
hostile territory, and Charin lies far beyond the impress of ordinary
Terran law. But the gate stood wide-open, and the guards looked lax and
bored. They had shockers, but they didn't look as if they'd used them
lately.

One raised an eyebrow at his companion as I shambled up. I could pretty
well guess the impression I made, dirty, unkempt and stained with
nonhuman blood. I asked permission to go into the Terran Zone.

They asked my name and business, and I toyed with the notion of giving
the name of the man I was inadvertently impersonating. Then I decided
that if Rakhal had passed himself off as Race Cargill, he'd expect
exactly that. And he was also capable of the masterstroke of
impudence--putting out a pickup order, through Spaceforce, for his own
name!

So I gave the name we'd used from Shainsa to Charin, and tacked one of
the Secret Service passwords on the end of it. They looked at each other
again and one said, "Rascar, eh? This is the guy, all right." He took me
into the little booth by the gate while the other used an intercom
device. Presently they took me along into the HQ building, and into an
office that said "Legate."

I tried not to panic, but it wasn't easy! Evidently I'd walked square
into another trap. One guard asked me, "All right, now, what exactly is
your business in the Trade City?"

I'd hoped to locate Rakhal first. Now I knew I'd have no chance and at
all costs I must straighten out this matter of identity before it went
any further.

"Put me straight through to Magnusson's office, Level 38 at Central HQ,
by visi," I demanded. I was trying to remember if Mack had ever even
heard the name we used in Shainsa. I decided I couldn't risk it. "Name
of Race Cargill."

The guard grinned without moving. He said to his partner, "That's the
one, all right." He put a hand on my shoulder, spinning me around.

"Haul off, man. Shake your boots."

There were two of them, and Spaceforce guards aren't picked for their
good looks. Just the same, I gave a pretty good account of myself until
the inner door opened and a man came storming out.

"What the devil is all this racket?"

One guard got a hammerlock on me. "This Dry-towner bum tried to talk us
into making a priority call to Magnusson, the Chief at Central. He knew
a couple of the S.S. passwords. That's what got him through the gate.
Remember, Cargill passed the word that somebody would turn up trying to
impersonate him."

"I remember." The strange man's eyes were wary and cold.

"You damned fools," I snarled. "Magnusson will identify me! Can't you
realize you're dealing with an impostor?"

One of the guards said to the legate in an undertone, "Maybe we ought to
hold him as a suspicious character." But the legate shook his head. "Not
worth the trouble. Cargill said it was a private affair. You might
search him, make sure he's not concealing contraband weapons," he added,
and talked softly to the wide-eyed clerk in the background while the
guards went through my shirtcloak and pockets.

When they started to unwrap the silk-shrouded Toy I yelled--if the thing
got set off accidentally, there'd be trouble. The legate turned and
rebuked, "Can't you see it's embroidered with the Toad God? It's a
religious amulet of some sort, let it alone."

They grumbled, but gave it back to me, and the legate commanded, "Don't
mess him up any more. Give him back his knife and take him to the gates.
But make sure he doesn't come back."

I found myself seized and frog-marched to the gate. One guard pushed my
skean back into its clasp. The other shoved me hard, and I stumbled,
fell sprawling in the dust of the cobbled street, to the accompaniment
of a profane statement about what I could expect if I came back. A
chorus of jeers from a cluster of _chak_ children and veiled women broke
across me.

I picked myself up, glowered so fiercely at the giggling spectators that
the laughter drained away into silence, and clenched my fists, half
inclined to turn back and bull my way through. Then I subsided. First
round to Rakhal. He had sprung the trap on me, very neatly.

The street was narrow and crooked, winding between doubled rows of
pebble-houses, and full of dark shadows even in the crimson noon. I
walked aimlessly, favoring the arm the guard had crushed. I was no
closer to settling things with Rakhal, and I had slammed at least one
gate behind me.

Why hadn't I had sense enough to walk up and demand to _see_ Race
Cargill? Why hadn't I insisted on a fingerprint check? I could prove my
identity, and Rakhal, using my name in my absence, to those who didn't
know me by sight, couldn't. I could at least have made him try. But he
had maneuvered it very cleverly, so I never had a chance to insist on
proofs.

I turned into a wineshop and ordered a dram of greenish mountainberry
liquor, sipping it slowly and fingering the few bills and coins in my
pockets. I'd better forget about warning Juli. I couldn't 'vise her from
Charin, except in the Terran zone. I had neither the money nor the time
to make the trip in person, even if I could get passage on a
Terran-dominated airline after today.

Miellyn. She had flirted with me, and like Dallisa, she might prove
vulnerable. It might be another trap, but I'd take the chance. At least
I could get hints about Evarin. And I needed information. I wasn't used
to this kind of intrigue any more. The smell of danger was foreign to me
now, and I found it unpleasant.

The small lump of the bird in my pocket tantalized me. I took it out
again. It was a temptation to press the stud and let it settle things,
or at least start them going, then and there.

After a while I noticed the proprietors of the shop staring at the silk
of the wrappings. They backed off, apprehensive. I held out a coin and
they shook their heads. "You are welcome to the drink," one of them
said. "All we have is at your service. Only please go. Go quickly."

They would not touch the coins I offered. I thrust the bird in my
pocket, swore and went. It was my second experience with being somehow
tabu, and I didn't like it.

It was dusk when I realized I was being followed.

At first it was a glimpse out of the corner of my eye, a head seen too
frequently for coincidence. It developed into a too-persistent footstep
in uneven rhythm.

Tap-_tap_-tap. Tap-_tap_-tap.

I had my skean handy, but I had a hunch this wasn't anything I could
settle with a skean. I ducked into a side street and waited.

Nothing.

I went on, laughing at my imagined fears.

Then, after a time, the soft, persistent footfall thudded behind me
again.

I cut across a thieves market, dodging from stall to stall, cursed by
old women selling hot fried goldfish, women in striped veils railing at
me in their chiming talk when I brushed their rolled rugs with hasty
feet. Far behind I heard the familiar uneven hurry: tap-_tap_-tap,
tap-_tap_-tap.

I fled down a street where women sat on flower-decked balconies, their
open lanterns flowing with fountains and rivulets of gold and orange
fire. I raced through quiet streets where furred children crept to doors
and watched me pass with great golden eyes that shone in the dark.

I dodged into an alley and lay there, breathing hard. Someone not two
inches away said, "Are you one of us, brother?"

I muttered something surly, in his dialect, and a hand, reassuringly
human, closed on my elbow. "This way."

Out of breath with long running, I let him lead me, meaning to break
away after a few steps, apologize for mistaken identity and vanish, when
a sound at the end of the street made me jerk stiff and listen.

Tap-_tap_-tap. Tap-_tap_-tap.

I let my arm relax in the hand that guided me, flung a fold of my
shirtcloak over my face, and went along with my unknown guide.




CHAPTER THIRTEEN


I stumbled over steps, took a jolting stride downward, and found myself
in a dim room jammed with dark figures, human and nonhuman.

The figures swayed in the darkness, chanting in a dialect not altogether
familiar to me, a monotonous wailing chant, with a single recurrent
phrase: "Kamaina! Kama-aina!" It began on a high note, descending in
weird chromatics to the lowest tone the human ear could resolve.

The sound made me draw back. Even the Dry-towners shunned the orgiastic
rituals of Kamaina. Earthmen have a reputation for getting rid of the
more objectionable customs--by human standards--on any planet where they
live. But they don't touch religions, and Kamaina, on the surface
anyhow, was a religion.

I started to turn round and leave, as if I had inadvertently walked
through the wrong door, but my conductor hauled on my arm, and I was
wedged in too tight by now to risk a roughhouse. Trying to force my way
out would only have called attention to me, and the first of the Secret
Service maxims is; when in doubt, go along, keep quiet, and watch the
other guy.

As my eyes adapted to the dim light, I saw that most of the crowd were
Charin plainsmen or _chaks_. One or two wore Dry-town shirtcloaks, and I
even thought I saw an Earthman in the crowd, though I was never sure and
I fervently hope not. They were squatting around small crescent-shaped
tables, and all intently gazing at a flickery spot of light at the front
of the cellar. I saw an empty place at one table and dropped there,
finding the floor soft, as if cushioned.

On each table, small smudging pastilles were burning, and from these
cones of ash-tipped fire came the steamy, swimmy smoke that filled the
darkness with strange colors. Beside me an immature _chak_ girl was
kneeling, her fettered hands strained tightly back at her sides, her
naked breasts pierced for jeweled rings.

Beneath the pallid fur around her pointed ears, the exquisite animal
face was quite mad. She whispered to me, but her dialect was so thick
that I could follow only a few words, and would just as soon not have
heard those few. An older _chak_ grunted for silence and she subsided,
swaying and crooning.

There were cups and decanters on all the tables, and a woman tilted
pale, phosphorescent fluid into a cup and offered it to me. I took one
sip, then another. It was cold and pleasantly tart, and not until the
second swallow turned sweet on my tongue did I know what I tasted. I
pretended to swallow while the woman's eyes were fixed on me, then
somehow contrived to spill the filthy stuff down my shirt.

I was wary even of the fumes, but there was nothing else I could do. The
stuff was _shallavan_, outlawed on every planet in the Terran Empire and
every halfway decent planet outside it.

More and more figures, men and creatures, kept crowding into the cellar,
which was not very large. The place looked like the worst nightmare of a
drug-dreamer, ablaze with the colors of the smoking incense, the swaying
crowd, and their monotonous cries. Quite suddenly there was a blaze of
purple light and someone screamed in raving ecstasy: "_Na ki na Nebran
n'hai Kamaina!_"

"Kamayeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeena!" shrilled the tranced mob.

An old man jumped up and started haranguing the crowd. I could just
follow his dialect. He was talking about Terra. He was talking about
riots. He was jabbering mystical gibberish which I couldn't understand
and didn't want to understand, and rabble-rousing anti-Terran propaganda
which I understood much too well.

Another blaze of lights and another long scream in chorus:
"Kamayeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeena!"

Evarin stood in the blaze of the many-colored light.

The Toymaker, as I had seen him last, cat-smooth, gracefully alien,
shrouded in a ripple of giddy crimsons. Behind him was a blackness. I
waited till the painful blaze of lights abated, then, straining my eyes
to see past him, I got my worst shock.

A woman stood there, naked to the waist, her hands ritually fettered
with little chains that stirred and clashed musically as she moved
stiff-legged in a frozen dream. Hair like black grass banded her brow
and naked shoulders, and her eyes were crimson.

And the eyes lived in the dead dreaming face. They lived, and they were
mad with terror although the lips curved in a gently tranced smile.

Miellyn.

Evarin was speaking in that dialect I barely understood. His arms were
flung high and his cloak went spilling away from them, rippling like
something alive. The jammed humans and nonhumans swayed and chanted and
he swayed above them like an iridescent bug, weaving arms rippling back
and forth, back and forth. I strained to catch his words.

"Our world ... an old world."

"Kamayeeeeena," whimpered the shrill chorus.

"... humans, humans, all humans would make slaves of us all, all save
the Children of the Ape...."

I lost the thread for a moment. True. The Terran Empire has one small
blind spot in otherwise sane policy, ignoring that nonhuman and human
have lived placidly here for millennia: they placidly assumed that
humans were everywhere the dominant race, as on Earth itself.

The Toymaker's weaving arms went on spinning, spinning. I rubbed my eyes
to clear them of _shallavan_ and incense. I hoped that what I saw was an
illusion of the drug--something, something huge and dark, was hovering
over the girl. She stood placidly, hands clasped on her chains, but her
eyes writhed in the frozen calm of her face.

Then something--I can only call it a sixth sense--bore it on me that
there was _someone_ outside the door. I was perhaps the only creature
there, except for Evarin, not drugged with _shallavan_, and perhaps
that's all it was. But during the days in the Secret Service I'd had to
develop some extra senses. Five just weren't enough for survival.

I _knew_ somebody was fixing to break down that door, and I had a good
idea why. I'd been followed, by the legate's orders, and, tracking me
here, they'd gone away and brought back reinforcements.

Someone struck a blow on the door and a stentorian voice bawled, "Open
up there, in the name of the Empire!"

The chanting broke in ragged quavers. Evarin stopped. Somewhere a woman
screamed. The lights abruptly went out and a stampede started in the
room. Women struck me with chains, men kicked, there were shrieks and
howls. I thrust my way forward, butting with elbows and knees and
shoulders.

A dusky emptiness yawned and I got a glimpse of sunlight and open sky
and knew that Evarin had stepped through into _somewhere_ and was gone.
The banging on the door sounded like a whole regiment of Spaceforce out
there. I dived toward the shimmer of little stars which marked Miellyn's
tiara in the darkness, braving the black horror hovering over her, and
touched rigid girl-flesh, cold as death.

I grabbed her and ducked sideways. This time it wasn't intuition--nine
times out of ten, anyway, intuition is just a mental shortcut which adds
up all the things which your subconscious has noticed while you were
busy thinking about something else. Every native building on Wolf had
concealed entrances and exits and I know where to look for them. This
one was exactly where I expected. I pushed at it and found myself in a
long, dim corridor.

The head of a woman peered from an opening door. She saw Miellyn's limp
body hanging on my arm and her mouth widened in a silent scream. Then
the head popped back out of sight and a door slammed. I heard the bolt
slide. I ran for the end of the hall, the girl in my arms, thinking that
this was where I came in, as far as Miellyn was concerned, and wondering
why I bothered.

The door opened on a dark, peaceful street. One lonely moon was setting
beyond the rooftops. I set Miellyn on her feet, but she moaned and
crumpled against me. I put my shirtcloak around her bare shoulders.
Judging by the noises and yells, we'd gotten out just in time. No one
came out the exit behind us. Either the Spaceforce had plugged it or,
more likely, everyone else in the cellar had been too muddled by drugs
to know what was going on.

But it was only a few minutes, I knew, before Spaceforce would check the
whole building for concealed escape holes. Suddenly, and irrelevantly, I
found myself thinking of a day not too long ago, when I'd stood up in
front of a unit-in-training of Spaceforce, introduced to them as an
Intelligence expert on native towns, and solemnly warned them about
concealed exits and entrances. I wondered, for half a minute, if it
might not be simpler just to wait here and let them pick me up.

Then I hoisted Miellyn across my shoulders. She was heavier than she
looked, and after a minute, half conscious, she began to struggle and
moan. There was a _chak_-run cookshop down the street, a place I'd once
known well, with an evil reputation and worse food, but it was quiet and
stayed open all night. I turned in at the door, bending at the low
lintel.

The place was smoke-filled and foul-smelling. I dumped Miellyn on a
couch and sent the frowsy waiter for two bowls of noodles and coffee,
handed him a few extra coins, and told him to leave us alone. He
probably drew the worst possible inference--I saw his muzzle twitch at
the smell of _shallavan_--but it was that kind of place anyhow. He drew
down the shutters and went.

I stared at the unconscious girl, then shrugged and started on the
noodles. My own head was still swimmy with the fumes, incense and drug,
and I wanted it clear. I wasn't quite sure what I was going to do, but
I had Evarin's right-hand girl, and I was going to use her.

The noodles were greasy and had a curious taste, but they were hot, and
I ate all of one bowl before Miellyn stirred and whimpered and put up
one hand, with a little clinking of chains, to her hair. The gesture was
indefinably reminiscent of Dallisa, and for the first time I saw the
likeness between them. It made me wary and yet curiously softened.

Finding she could not move freely, she rolled over, sat up and stared
around in growing bewilderment and dismay.

"There was a sort of riot," I said. "I got you out. Evarin ditched you.
And you can quit thinking what you're thinking, I put my shirtcloak on
you because you were bare to the waist and it didn't look so good." I
stopped to think that over, and amended: "I mean I couldn't haul you
around the streets that way. It looked good enough."

To my surprise, she gave a shaky little giggle, and held out her
fettered hands. "Will you?"

I broke her links and freed her. She rubbed her wrists as if they hurt
her, then drew up her draperies, pinned them so that she was decently
covered, and tossed back my shirtcloak. Her eyes were wide and soft in
the light of the flickering stub of candle.

"O, Rakhal," she sighed. "When I saw you there--" She sat up, clasping
her hands hard together, and when she continued her voice was curiously
cold and controlled for anyone so childish. It was almost as cold as
Dallisa's.

"If you've come from Kyral, I'm not going back. I'll never go back, and
you may as well know it."

"I don't come from Kyral, and I don't care where you go. I don't care
what you do." I suddenly realized that the last statement was wholly
untrue, and to cover my confusion I shoved the remaining bowl of noodles
at her.

"Eat."

She wrinkled her nose in fastidious disgust. "I'm not hungry."

"Eat it anyway. You're still half doped, and the food will clear your
head." I picked up one mug of the coffee and drained it at a single
swallow. "What were you doing in that disgusting den?"

Without warning she flung herself across the table at me, throwing her
arms round my neck. Startled, I let her cling a moment, then reached up
and firmly unfastened her hands.

"None of that now. I fell for it once, and it landed me in the middle of
the mudpie."

But her fingers bit my shoulder.

"Rakhal, Rakhal, I tried to get away and find you. Have you still got
the bird? You haven't set it off yet? Oh, don't, don't, don't, Rakhal,
you don't know what Evarin is, you don't know what he's doing." The
words spilled out of her like floodwaters. "He's won so many of you,
don't let him have you too, Rakhal. They call you an honest man, you
worked once for Terra, the Terrans would believe you if you went to them
and told them what he--Rakhal, take me to the Terran Zone, take me
there, take me there where they'll protect me from Evarin."

At first I tried to stop her, question her, then waited and let the
torrent of entreaty run on and on. At last, exhausted and breathless,
she lay quietly against my shoulder, her head fallen forward. The musty
reek of _shallavan_ mingled with the flower scent of her hair.

"Kid," I said heavily at last, "you and your Toymaker have both got me
wrong. I'm not Rakhal Sensar."

"You're not?" She drew back, regarding me in dismay. Her eyes searched
every inch of me, from the gray streak across my forehead to the scar
running down into my collar. "Then who--"

"Race Cargill. Terran Intelligence."

She stared, her mouth wide like a child's.

Then she laughed. She _laughed_! At first I thought she was hysterical.
I stared at her in consternation. Then, as her wide eyes met mine, with
all the mischief of the nonhuman which has mingled into the human here,
all the circular complexities of Wolf illogic behind the woman in them,
I started to laugh too.

I threw back my head and roared, until we were clinging together and
gasping with mirth like a pair of raving fools. The _chak_ waiter came
to the door and stared at us, and I roared "Get the hell out," between
spasms of crazy laughter.

Then she was wiping her face, tears of mirth still dripping down her
cheeks, and I was frowning bleakly into the empty bowls.

"Cargill," she said hesitantly, "you can take me to the Terrans where
Rakhal--"

"Hell's bells," I exploded. "I can't take you anywhere, girl. I've got
to find Rakhal--" I stopped in midsentence and looked at her clearly for
the first time.

"Child, I'll see that you're protected, if I can. But I'm afraid you've
walked from the trap to the cookpot. There isn't a house in Charin that
will hold me. I've been thrown out twice today."

She nodded. "I don't know how the word spreads, but it happens, in
nonhuman parts. I think they can see trouble written in a human face, or
smell it on the wind." She fell silent, her face propped sleepily
between her hands, her hair falling in tangles. I took one of her hands
in mine and turned it over.

It was a fine hand, with birdlike bones and soft rose-tinted nails; but
the lines and hardened places around the knuckles reminded me that she,
too, came from the cold austerity of the salt Dry-towns. After a moment
she flushed and drew her hand from mine.

"What are you thinking, Cargill?" she asked, and for the first time I
heard her voice sobered, without the coquetry, which must after all have
been a very thin veneer.

I answered her simply and literally. "I am thinking of Dallisa. I
thought you were very different, and yet, I see that you are very like
her."

I thought she would question what I knew of her sister, but she let it
pass in silence. After a time she said, "Yes, we were twins." Then,
after a long silence, she added, "But she was always much the older."

And that was all I ever knew of whatever obscure pressures had shaped
Dallisa into an austere and tragic Clytemnestra, and Miellyn into a
pixie runaway.

Outside the drawn shutters, dawn was brightening. Miellyn shivered,
drawing her thin draperies around her bare throat. I glanced at the
little rim of jewels that starred her hair and said, "You'd better take
those off and hide them. They alone would be enough to have you hauled
into an alley and strangled, in this part of Charin." I hauled the bird
Toy from my pocket and slapped it on the greasy table, still wrapped in
its silk. "I don't suppose you know which of us this thing is set to
kill?"

"I know nothing about the Toys."

"You seem to know plenty about the Toymaker."

"I thought so. Until last night." I looked at the rigid, clamped mouth
and thought that if she were really as soft and delicate as she looked,
she would have wept. Then she struck her small hand on the tabletop and
burst out, "It's not a religion. It isn't even an honest movement for
freedom! Its a--a front for smuggling, and drugs, and--and every other
filthy thing!

"Believe it or not, when I left Shainsa, I thought Nebran was the answer
to the way the Terrans were strangling us! Now I know there are worse
things on Wolf than the Terran Empire! I've heard of Rakhal Sensar, and
whatever you may think of Rakhal, he's too decent to be mixed up in
anything like this!"

"Suppose you tell me what's really going on," I suggested. She couldn't
add much to what I knew already, but the last fragments of the pattern
were beginning to settle into place. Rakhal, seeking the matter
transmitter and some key to the nonhuman sciences of Wolf--I knew now
what the city of Silent Ones had reminded me of!--had somehow crossed
the path of the Toymaker.

Evarin's words now made sense: "_You were clever at evading our
surveillance--for a while._" Possibly, though I'd never know, Cuinn had
been keeping one foot in each camp, working for Kyral and for Evarin.
The Toymaker, knowing of Rakhal's anti-Terran activities, had believed
he would make a valuable ally and had taken steps to secure his help.

Juli herself had given me the clue: "_He smashed Rindy's Toys._" Out of
the context it sounded like the work of a madman. Now, having
encountered Evarin's workshop, it made plain good sense.

And I think I had known all along that Rakhal could not have been
playing Evarin's game. He might have turned against Terra--though now I
was beginning even to doubt that--and certainly he'd have killed me if
he found me. But he would have done it himself, and without malice.
_Killed without malice_--that doesn't make sense in any of the
languages of Terra. But it made sense to me.

Miellyn had finished her brief recitation and was drowsing, her head
pillowed on the table. The reddish light was growing, and I realized
that I was waiting for dawn as, days ago, I had waited for sunset in
Shainsa, with every nerve stretched to the breaking point. It was dawn
of the third morning, and this bird lying on the table before me must
fly or, far away in the Kharsa, another would fly at Juli.

I said, "There's some distance limitation on this one, I understand,
since I have to be fairly near its object. If I lock it in a steel box
and drop it in the desert, I'll guarantee it won't bother anybody. I
don't suppose you'd have a shot at stealing the other one for me?"

She raised her head, eyes flashing. "Why should you worry about Rakhal's
wife?" she flared, and for no good reason it occurred to me that she was
jealous. "I might have known Evarin wouldn't shoot in the dark! Rakhal's
wife, that Earthwoman, what do you care for her?"

It seemed important to set her straight. I explained that Juli was my
sister, and saw a little of the tension fade from her face, but not all.
Remembering the custom of the Dry-towns, I was not wholly surprised when
she added, jealously, "When I heard of your feud, I guessed it was over
that woman!"

"But not in the way you think," I said. Juli had been part of it,
certainly. Even then I had not wanted her to turn her back on her world,
but if Rakhal had remained with Terra, I would have accepted his
marriage to Juli. Accepted it. I'd have rejoiced. God knows we had been
closer than brothers, those years in the Dry-towns. And then, before
Miellyn's flashing eyes, I suddenly faced my secret hate, my secret
fear. No, the quarrel had not been all Rakhal's doing.

He had not turned his back, unexplained on Terra. In some unrecognized
fashion, I had done my best to drive him away. And when he had gone, I
had banished a part of myself as well, and thought I could end the
struggle by saying it didn't exist. And now, facing what I had done to
all of us, I knew that my revenge--so long sought, so dearly
cherished--must be abandoned.

"We still have to deal with the bird," I said. "It's a gamble, with all
the cards wild." I could dismantle it, and trust to luck that Wolf
illogic didn't include a tamper mechanism. But that didn't seem worth
the risk.

"First I've got to _find_ Rakhal. If I set the bird free and it killed
him, it wouldn't settle anything." For I could not kill Rakhal. Not,
now, because I knew life would be a worse punishment than death. But
because--I knew it, now--if Rakhal died, Juli would die, too. And if I
killed him I'd be killing the best part of myself. Somehow Rakhal and I
must strike a balance between our two worlds, and try to build a new one
from them.

"And I can't sit here and talk any longer. I haven't time to take you--"
I stopped, remembering the spaceport cafe at the edge of the Kharsa.
There was a street-shrine, or matter transmitter, right there, across
the street from the Terran HQ. _All these years...._

"You know your way in the transmitters. You can go there in a second or
two." She could warn Juli, tell Magnusson. But when I suggested this,
giving her a password that would take her straight to the top, she
turned white. "All jumps have to be made through the Mastershrine."

I stopped and thought about that.

"Where is Evarin likely to be, right now?"

She gave a nervous shudder. "He's everywhere!"

"Rubbish! He's not omniscient! Why, you little fool, he didn't even
recognize me. He thought I was Rakhal!" I wasn't too sure, myself, but
Miellyn needed reassurance. "Or take _me_ to the Mastershrine. I can
find Rakhal in that scanning device of Evarin's." I saw refusal in her
face and pushed on, "If Evarin's there, I'll prove he's fallible enough
with a skean in his throat! And here"--I thrust the Toy into her
hand--"hang on to this, will you?"

She put it matter-of-factly into her draperies. "I don't mind that. But
to the shrine--" Her voice quivered, and I stood up and pushed at the
table.

"Let's get going. Where's the nearest street-shrine?"

"No, no! Oh, I don't dare!"

"You've got to." I saw the _chak_ who owned the place edging round the
door again and said, "There's no use arguing, Miellyn." When she had
readjusted her robes a little while ago, she had pinned them so that
the flat sprawl of the Nebran embroideries was over her breasts. I put a
finger against them, not in a sensuous gesture, and said, "The minute
they see these, they'll throw us out of here, too."

"If you knew what I know of Nebran, you wouldn't _want_ me to go near
the Mastershrine again!" There was that faint coquettishness in her
sidewise smile.

And suddenly I realized that I didn't want her to. But she was not
Dallisa and she could not sit in cold dignity while her world fell into
ruin. Miellyn must fight for the one she wanted.

And then some of that primitive male hostility which lives in every man
came to the surface, and I gripped her arm until she whimpered. Then I
said, in the Shainsan which still comes to my tongue when moved or
angry, "Damn it, you're _going_. Have you forgotten that if it weren't
for me you'd have been torn to pieces by that raving mob, or something
worse?"

That did it. She pulled away and I saw again, beneath the veneer of
petulant coquetry, that fierce and untamable insolence of the
Dry-towner. The more fierce and arrogant, in this girl, because she had
burst her fettered hands free and shaken off the ruin of the past.

I was seized with a wildly inappropriate desire to seize her, crush her
in my arms, taste the red honey of that teasing mouth. The effort of
mastering the impulse made me rough.

I shoved at her and said, "Come on. Let's get there before Evarin does."




CHAPTER FOURTEEN


Outside in the streets it was full day, and the color and life of Charin
had subsided into listlessness again, a dim morning dullness and
silence. Only a few men lounged wearily in the streets, as if the sun
had sapped their energy. And always the pale fleecy-haired children,
human and furred nonhuman, played their mysterious games on the curbs
and gutters and staring at us with neither curiosity nor malice.

Miellyn was shaking when she set her feet into the patterned stones of
the street-shrine.

"Scared, Miellyn?"

"I know Evarin. You don't. But"--her mouth twitched in a pitiful attempt
at the old mischief--"when I am with a great and valorous Earthman...."

"Cut it out," I growled, and she giggled. "You'll have to stand closer
to me. The transmitters are meant only for one person."

I stooped and put my arms round her. "Like this?"

"Like this," she whispered, pressing herself against me. A staggering
whirl of dizzy darkness swung round my head. The street vanished. After
an instant the floor steadied and we stepped into the terminal room in
the Mastershrine, under a skylight dim with the last red slant of
sunset. Distant hammering noises rang in my ears.

Miellyn whispered, "Evarin's not here, but he might jump through at any
second." I wasn't listening.

"Where is this place, Miellyn? Where on the planet?"

"No one knows but Evarin, I think. There are no doors. Anyone who goes
in or out, jumps through the transmitter." She pointed. "The scanning
device is in there, we'll have to go through the workroom."

She was patting her crushed robes into place, smoothing her hair with
fastidious fingers. "I don't suppose you have a comb? I've no time to go
to my own--"

I'd known she was a vain and pampered brat, but this passed all reason,
and I said so, exploding at her. She looked at me as if I wasn't quite
intelligent. "The Little Ones, my friend, notice things. You are quite
enough of a roughneck, but if I, Nebran's priestess, walk through their
workroom all blown about and looking like the tag end of an orgy in
Ardcarran...."

Abashed, I fished in a pocket and offered her a somewhat battered pocket
comb. She looked at it distastefully but used it to good purpose,
smoothing her hair swiftly, rearranging her loose-pinned robe so that
the worst of the tears and stains were covered, and giving me,
meanwhile, an artless and rather tempting view of some delicious
curvature. She replaced the starred tiara on her ringlets and finally
opened the door of the workroom and we walked through.

Not for years had I known that particular sensation--thousands of eyes,
boring holes in the center of my back somewhere. There _were_ eyes; the
round inhuman orbs of the dwarf _chaks_, the faceted stare of the prism
eyes of the Toys. The workroom wasn't a hundred feet long, but it felt
longer than a good many miles I've walked. Here and there the dwarfs
murmured an obsequious greeting to Miellyn, and she made some
lighthearted answer.

She had warned me to walk as if I had every right to be there, and I
strode after her as if we were simply going to an agreed-on meeting in
the next room. But I was drenched with cold sweat before the farther
door finally closed, safe and blessedly opaque, behind us. Miellyn, too,
was shaking with fright, and I put a hand on her arm.

"Steady, kid. Where's the scanner?"

She touched the panel I'd seen. "I'm not sure I can focus it accurately.
Evarin never let me touch it."

This was a fine time to tell me that. "How does it work?"

"It's an adaptation of the transmitter principle. It lets you see
anywhere, but without jumping. It uses a tracer mechanism like the one
in the Toys. If Rakhal's electrical-impulse pattern were on file--just a
minute." She fished out the bird Toy and unwrapped it. "Here's how we
find out which of you this is keyed to."

I looked at the fledgling bird, lying innocently in her palm, as she
pushed aside the feathers, exposing a tiny crystal. "If it's keyed to
you, you'll see yourself in this, as if the screen were a mirror. If
it's keyed to Rakhal...."

She touched the crystal to the surface of the screen. Little flickers of
snow wavered and danced. Then, abruptly, we were looking down from a
height at the lean back of a man in a leather jacket. Slowly he turned.
I saw the familiar set of his shoulders, saw the back of his head come
into an aquiline profile, and the profile turn slowly into a scarred,
seared mask more hideously claw-marked and disfigured than my own.

"Rakhal," I muttered. "Shift the focus if you can, Miellyn, get a look
out the window or something. Charin's a big city. If we could get a look
at a landmark--"

Rakhal was talking soundlessly, his lips moving as he spoke to someone
out of sight range of the scanning device. Abruptly Miellyn said,
"There." She had caught a window in the sight field of the pane. I could
see a high pylon and two of three uprights that looked like a bridge,
just outside. I said, "It's the Bridge of Summer Snows. I know where he
is now. Turn it off, Miellyn, we can find him--" I was turning away when
Miellyn screamed.

"Look!"

Rakhal had turned his back on the scanner and for the first time I could
see who he was talking to. A hunched, catlike shoulder twisted; a
sinuous neck, a high-held head that was not quite human.

"Evarin!" I swore. "That does it. He knows now that I'm not Rakhal, if
he didn't know it all along! Come on, girl, we're getting out of here!"

This time there was no pretense of normality as we dashed through the
workroom. Fingers dropped from half-completed Toys as they stared after
us. _Toys!_ I wanted to stop and smash them all. But if we hurried, we
might find Rakhal. And, with luck, we would find Evarin with him.

And then I was going to bang their heads together. I'd reached a
saturation point on adventure. I'd had all I wanted. I realized that I'd
been up all night, that I was exhausted. I wanted to murder and smash,
and wanted to fall down somewhere and go to sleep, all at once. We
banged the workroom door shut and I took time to shove a heavy divan
against it, blockading it.

Miellyn stared. "The Little Ones would not harm me," she began. "I am
sacrosanct."

I wasn't sure. I had a notion her status had changed plenty, beginning
when I saw her chained and drugged, and standing under the hovering
horror. But I didn't say so.

"Maybe. But there's nothing sacred about _me_!"

She was already inside the recess where the Toad God squatted. "There is
a street-shrine just beyond the Bridge of Summer Snows. We can jump
directly there." Abruptly she froze in my arms, with a convulsive
shudder.

"Evarin! Hold me, tight--he's jumping in! Quick!"

Space reeled round us, and then....

Can you split instantaneousness into fragments? It didn't make sense,
but so help me, that's what happened. And everything that happened,
occurred within less than a second. We landed in the street-shrine. I
could see the pylon and the bridge and the rising sun of Charin. Then
there was the giddy internal wrenching, a blast of icy air whistled
round us, and we were gazing out at the Polar mountains, ringed in their
eternal snow.

Miellyn clutched at me. "Pray! Pray to the Gods of Terra, if there are
any!"

She clung so violently that it felt as if her small body was trying to
push through me and come out the other side. I hung on tight. Miellyn
knew what she was doing in the transmitter; I was just along for the
ride and I didn't relish the thought of being dropped off somewhere in
that black limbo we traversed.

We jumped again, the sickness of disorientation forcing a moan from the
girl, and darkness shivered round us. I looked on an unfamiliar street
of black night and dust-bleared stars. She whimpered, "Evarin knows what
I'm doing. He's jumping us all over the planet. He can work the controls
with his mind. Psychokinetics--I can do it a little, but I never
dared--oh, hang on _tight_!"

Then began one of the most amazing duels ever fought. Miellyn would make
some tiny movement, and we would be falling, blind and dizzy, through
blackness. Halfway through the giddiness, a new direction would wrench
us and we would be thrust elsewhere, and look out into a new street.

One instant I smelled hot coffee from the spaceport cafe near the
Kharsa. An instant later it was blinding noon, with crimson fronds
waving above us and a dazzle of water. We flicked in and out of the
salty air of Shainsa, glimpsed flowers on a Daillon street, moonlight,
noon, red twilight flickered and went, shot through with the terrible
giddiness of hyperspace.

Then suddenly I caught a second glimpse of the bridge and the pylon; a
moment's oversight had landed us for an instant in Charin. The blackness
started to reel down, but my reflexes are fast and I made one swift,
scrabbling step forward. We lurched, sprawled, locked together, on the
stones of the Bridge of Summer Snows. Battered, and bruised, and
bloody, we were still alive, and where we wanted to be.

I lifted Miellyn to her feet. Her eyes were dazed with pain. The ground
swayed and rocked under our feet as we fled along the bridge. At the far
end, I looked up at the pylon. Judging from its angle, we couldn't be
more than a hundred feet from the window through which I'd seen that
landmark in the scanner. In this street there was a wineshop, a silk
market, and a small private house. I walked up and banged on the door.

Silence. I knocked again and had time to wonder if we'd find ourselves
explaining things to some uninvolved stranger. Then I heard a child's
high voice, and a deep familiar voice hushing it. The door opened, just
a crack, to reveal part of a scarred face.

It drew into a hideous grin, then relaxed.

"I thought it might be you, Cargill. You've taken at least three days
longer than I figured, getting here. Come on in," said Rakhal Sensar.




CHAPTER FIFTEEN


He hadn't changed much in six years. His face _was_ worse than mine; he
hadn't had the plastic surgeons of Terran Intelligence doing their best
for him. His mouth, I thought fleetingly, must hurt like hell when he
drew it up into the kind of grin he was grinning now. His eyebrows,
thick and fierce with gray in them, went up as he saw Miellyn; but he
backed away to let us enter, and shut the door behind us.

The room was bare and didn't look as if it had been lived in much. The
floor was stone, rough-laid, a single fur rug laid before a brazier. A
little girl was sitting on the rug, drinking from a big double-handled
mug, but she scrambled to her feet as we came in, and backed against the
wall, looking at us with wide eyes.

She had pale-red hair like Juli's, cut straight in a fringe across her
forehead, and she was dressed in a smock of dyed red fur that almost
matched her hair. A little smear of milk like a white moustache clung to
her upper lip where she had forgotten to wipe her mouth. She was about
five years old, with deep-set dark eyes like Juli's, that watched me
gravely without surprise or fear; she evidently knew who I was.

"Rindy," Rakhal said quietly, not taking his eyes from me. "Go into the
other room."

Rindy didn't move, still staring at me. Then she moved toward Miellyn,
looking up intently not at the woman, but at the pattern of embroideries
across her dress. It was very quiet, until Rakhal added, in a gentle and
curiously moderate voice, "Do you still carry a skean, Race?"

I shook my head. "There's an ancient proverb on Terra, about blood being
thicker than water, Rakhal. That's Juli's daughter. I'm not going to
kill her father right before her eyes." My rage spilled over then, and I
bellowed, "To hell with your damned Dry-town feuds and your filthy Toad
God and all the rest of it!"

Rakhal said harshly, "Rindy. I told you to get out."

"She needn't go." I took a step toward the little girl, a wary eye on
Rakhal. "I don't know quite what you're up to, but it's nothing for a
child to be mixed up in. Do what you damn please. I can settle with you
any time.

"The first thing is to get Rindy out of here. She belongs with Juli and,
damn it, that's where she's going." I held out my arms to the little
girl and said, "It's over, Rindy, whatever he's done to you. Your mother
sent me to find you. Don't you want to go to your mother?"

Rakhal made a menacing gesture and warned, "I wouldn't--"

Miellyn darted swiftly between us and caught up the child in her arms.
Rindy began to struggle noiselessly, kicking and whimpering, but Miellyn
took two quick steps, and flung an inner door open. Rakhal took a stride
toward her. She whirled on him, fighting to control the furious little
girl, and gasped, "Settle it between you, without the baby watching!"

Through the open door I briefly saw a bed, a child's small dresses
hanging on a hook, before Miellyn kicked the door shut and I heard a
latch being fastened. Behind the closed door Rindy broke into angry
screams, but I put my back against the door.

"She's right. We'll settle it between the two of us. What have you done
to that child?"

"If you thought--" Rakhal stopped himself in midsentence and stood
watching me without moving for a minute. Then he laughed.

"You're as stupid as ever, Race. Why, you fool, I knew Juli would run
straight to you, if she was scared enough. I knew it would bring you out
of hiding. Why, you damned fool!" He stood mocking me, but there was a
strained fury, almost a frenzy of contempt behind the laughter.

"You filthy coward, Race! Six years hiding in the Terran zone. Six
years, and I gave you six months! If you'd had the guts to walk out
after me, after I rigged that final deal to give you the chance, we
could have gone after the biggest thing on Wolf. And we could have
brought it off together, instead of spending years spying and dodging
and hunting! And now, when I finally get you out of hiding, all you want
to do is run back where you'll be safe! I thought you had more guts!"

"Not for Evarin's dirty work!"

Rakhal swore hideously. "Evarin! Do you really believe--I might have
known he'd get to you too! That girl--and you've managed to wreck all I
did there, too!" Suddenly, so swiftly my eyes could hardly follow, he
whipped out his skean and came at me. "Get away from that door!"

I stood my ground. "You'll have to kill me first. And I won't fight you,
Rakhal. We'll settle this, but we'll do it my way for once, like
Earthmen."

"_Son of the Ape!_ Get your skean out, you stinking coward!"

"I won't do it, Rakhal." I stood and defied him. I had outmaneuvered
Dry-towners in a _shegri_ bet. I knew Rakhal, and I knew he would not
knife an unarmed man. "We fought once with the _kifirgh_ and it didn't
settle anything. This time we'll do it my way. I threw my skean away
before I came here. I won't fight."

He thrust at me. Even I could see that the blow was a feint, and I had a
flashing, instantaneous memory of Dallisa's threat to drive the knife
through my palms. But even while I commanded myself to stand steady,
sheer reflex threw me forward, grabbing at his wrist and the knife.

Between my grappling hand he twisted and I felt the skean drive home,
rip through my jacket with a tearing sound; felt the thin fine line of
touch, not pain yet, as it sliced flesh. Then pain burned through my
ribs and I felt hot blood, and I wanted to kill Rakhal, wanted to get my
hands around his throat and kill him with them. And at the same time I
was raging because I didn't want to fight the crazy fool, I wasn't even
mad at him.

Miellyn flung the door open, shrieking, and suddenly the Toy, released,
was darting a small whirring droning horror, straight at Rakhal's eyes.
I yelled. But there was no time even to warn him. I bent and butted him
in the stomach. He grunted, doubled up in agony and fell out of the path
of the diving Toy. It whirred in frustration, hovered.

He writhed in agony, drawing up his knees, clawing at his shirt, while I
turned on Miellyn in immense fury--and stopped. Hers had been a move of
desperation, an instinctive act to restore the balance between a
weaponless man and one who had a knife. Rakhal gasped, in a hoarse voice
with all the breath gone from it:

"Didn't want to use. Rather fight clean--" Then he opened his closed
fist and suddenly there were _two_ of the little whirring droning
horrors in the room and this one was diving at me, and as I threw myself
headlong to the floor the last puzzle-piece fell into place: Evarin had
made the same bargain with Rakhal as with me!

I rolled over, dodging. Behind me in the room there was a child's shrill
scream: "Daddy! Daddy!" And abruptly the birds collapsed in midair and
went limp. They fell to the floor like dropping stones and lay there
quivering. Rindy dashed across the room, her small skirts flying, and
grabbed up one of the terrible vicious things in either hand.

"Rindy!" I bellowed. "No!"

She stood shaking, tears pouring down her round cheeks, a Toy squeezed
tight in either hand. Dark veins stood out almost black on her fair
temples. "Break them, Daddy," she implored in a little thread of a
voice. "Break them, _quick_. I can't hang on...."

Rakhal staggered to his feet like a drunken man and snatched one of the
Toys, grinding it under his heel. He made a grab at the second, reeled
and drew an anguished breath. He crumpled up, clutching at his belly
where I'd butted him. The bird screamed like a living thing.

Breaking my paralysis of horror I leaped up, ran across the room,
heedless of the searing pain along my side. I snatched the bird from
Rindy and it screamed and shrilled and died as my foot crunched the tiny
feathers. I stamped the still-moving thing into an amorphous mess and
kept on stamping and smashing until it was only a heap of powder.

Rakhal finally managed to haul himself upright again. His face was so
pale that the scars stood out like fresh burns.

"That was a foul blow, Race, but I--I know why you did it." He stopped
and breathed for a minute. Then he muttered, "You ... saved my life, you
know. Did you know you were doing it, when you did it?"

Still breathing hard, I nodded. Done knowingly, it meant an end of
blood-feud. However we had wronged each other, whatever the pledges. I
spoke the words that confirmed it and ended it, finally and forever:

"There is a life between us. Let it stand for a death."

Miellyn was standing in the doorway, her hands pressed to her mouth, her
eyes wide. She said shakily, "You're walking around with a knife in your
ribs, you fool!"

Rakhal whirled and with a quick jerk he pulled the skean loose. It had
simply been caught in my shirtcloak, in a fold of the rough cloth. He
pulled it away, glanced at the red tip, then relaxed. "Not more than an
inch deep," he said. Then, angrily, defending himself: "You did it
yourself, you ape. I was trying to get rid of the knife when you jumped
me."

But I knew that and he knew I knew it. He turned and scooped up Rindy,
who was sobbing noisily. She dug her head into his shoulder and I made
out her strangled words. "The other Toys hurt you when I was mad at
you...." she sobbed, rubbing her fists against smeared cheeks. "I--I
wasn't that mad at you. I wasn't that mad at anybody, not even ... him."

Rakhal pressed his hand against his daughter's fleecy hair and said,
looking at me over her head, "The Toys activate a child's subconscious
resentments against his parents--I found out that much. That also means
a child can control them for a few seconds. No adult can." A stranger
would have seen no change in his expression, but I knew him, and saw.

"Juli said you threatened Rindy."

He chuckled and set the child on her feet. "What else could I say that
would have scared Juli enough to send her running to you? Juli's proud,
almost as proud as you are, you stiff-necked Son of the Ape." The insult
did not sting me now.

"Come on, sit down and let's decide what to do, now we've finished up
the old business." He looked remotely at Miellyn and said, "You must be
Dallisa's sister? I don't suppose your talents include knowing how to
make coffee?"

They didn't, but with Rindy's help Miellyn managed, and while they were
out of the room Rakhal explained briefly. "Rindy has rudimentary ESP.
I've never had it myself, but I could teach her something--not
much--about how to use it. I've been on Evarin's track ever since that
business of The Lisse.

"I'd have got it sooner, if you were still working with me, but I
couldn't do anything as a Terran agent, and I had to be kicked out so
thoroughly that the others wouldn't be afraid I was still working
secretly for Terra. For a long time I was just chasing rumors, but when
Rindy got big enough to look in the crystals of Nebran, I started making
some progress.

"I was afraid to tell Juli; her best safety was the fact that she didn't
know anything. She's always been a stranger in the Dry-towns." He
paused, then said with honest self-evaluation, "Since I left the Secret
Service I've been a stranger there myself."

I asked, "What about Dallisa?"

"Twins have some ESP to each other. I knew Miellyn had gone to the
Toymaker. I tried to get Dallisa to find out where Miellyn had gone,
learn more about it. Dallisa wouldn't risk it, but Kyral saw me with
Dallisa and thought it was Miellyn. That put him on my tail, too, and I
had to leave Shainsa. I was afraid of Kyral," he added soberly. "Afraid
of what he'd do. I couldn't do anything without Rindy and I knew if I
told Juli what I was doing, she'd take Rindy away into the Terran Zone,
and I'd be as good as dead."

As he talked, I began to realize how vast a web Evarin and the
underground organization of Nebran had spread for us. "Evarin was here
today. What for?"

Rakhal laughed mirthlessly. "He's been trying to get us to kill each
other off. That would get rid of us both. He wants to turn over Wolf to
the nonhumans entirely, I think he's sincere enough, but"--he spread his
hands helplessly--"I can't sit by and see it."

I asked point-blank, "Are you working for Terra? Or for the Dry-towns?
Or any of the anti-Terran movements?"

"I'm working for _me_", he said with a shrug. "I don't think much of the
Terran Empire, but one planet can't fight a galaxy. Race, I want just
one thing. I want the Dry-towns and the rest of Wolf, to have a voice in
their own government. Any planet which makes a substantial contribution
to galactic science, by the laws of the Terran Empire, is automatically
given the status of an independent commonwealth.

"If a man from the Dry-towns discovers something like a matter
transmitter, Wolf gets dominion status. But Evarin and his gang want to
keep it secret, keep it away from Terra, keep it locked up in places
like Canarsa! Somebody has to get it away from them. And if I do it, I
get a nice fat bonus, and an official position."

I believed that, where I would have suspected too much protestation of
altruism. Rakhal tossed it aside.

"You've got Miellyn to take you through the transmitters. Go back to the
Mastershrine, and tell Evarin that Race Cargill is dead. In the Trade
City they think I'm Cargill, and I can get in and out as I choose--sorry
if it caused you trouble, but it was the safest thing I could think
of--and I'll 'vise Magnusson and have him send soldiers to guard the
street-shrines. Evarin might try to escape through one of them."

I shook my head. "Terra hasn't enough men on all Wolf to cover the
street-shrines in Charin alone. And I can't go back with Miellyn." I
explained. Rakhal pursed his lips and whistled when I described the
fight in the transmitter.

"You have all the luck, Cargill! I've never been near enough even to be
sure how they work--and I'll bet you didn't begin to understand! We'll
have to do it the hard way, then. It won't be the first time we've
bulled our way through a tight place! We'll face Evarin in his own
hideout! If Rindy's with us, we needn't worry."

I was willing to let him assume command, but I protested, "You'd take a
child into that--that--"

"What else can we do? Rindy can control the Toys, and neither you nor I
can do that, if Evarin should decide to throw his whole arsenal at us."
He called Rindy and spoke softly to her. She looked from her father to
me, and back again to her father, then smiled and stretched out her hand
to me.

Before we ventured into the street, Rakhal scowled at the sprawled
embroideries of Miellyn's robe. He said, "In those things you show up
like a snowfall in Shainsa. If you go out in them, you could be mobbed.
Hadn't you better get rid of them now?"

"I can't," she protested. "They're the keys to the transmitter!"

Rakhal looked at the conventionalized idols with curiosity, but said
only, "Cover them up in the street, then. Rindy, find her something to
put over her dress."

When we reached the street-shrine, Miellyn admonished: "Stand close
together on the stones. I'm not sure we can all make the jump at once,
but we'll have to try."

Rakhal picked up Rindy and hoisted her to his shoulder. Miellyn dropped
the cloak she had draped over the pattern of the Nebran embroideries,
and we crowded close together. The street swayed and vanished and I felt
the now-familiar dip and swirl of blackness before the world
straightened out again. Rindy was whimpering, dabbing smeary fists at
her face. "Daddy, my nose is bleeding...."

Miellyn hastily bent and wiped the blood from the snubby nose. Rakhal
gestured impatiently.

"The workroom. Wreck everything you see. Rindy, if anything starts to
come at us, you stop it. Stop it quick. And"--he bent and took the
little face between his hands--"_chiya_, remember they're not toys, no
matter how pretty they are."

Her grave gray eyes blinked, and she nodded.

Rakhal flung open the door of the elves' workshop with a shout. The
ringing of the anvils shattered into a thousand dissonances as I kicked
over a workbench and half-finished Toys crashed in confusion to the
floor.

The dwarfs scattered like rabbits before our assault of destruction. I
smashed tools, filigree, jewels, stamping everything with my heavy
boots. I shattered glass, caught up a hammer and smashed crystals. There
was a wild exhilaration to it.

A tiny doll, proportioned like a woman, dashed toward me, shrilling in a
supersonic shriek. I put my foot on her and ground the life out of her,
and she screamed like a living woman as she came apart. Her blue eyes
rolled from her head and lay on the floor watching me. I crushed the
blue jewels under my heel.

Rakhal swung a tiny hound by the tail. Its head shattered into debris of
almost-invisible gears and wheels. I caught up a chair and wrecked a
glass cabinet of parts with it, swinging furiously. A berserk madness of
smashing and breaking had laid hold on me.

I was drunk with crushing and shattering and ruining, when I heard
Miellyn scream a warning and turned to see Evarin standing in the
doorway. His green cat-eyes blazed with rage. Then he raised both hands
in a sudden, sardonic gesture, and with a loping, inhuman glide, raced
for the transmitter.

"Rindy," Rakhal panted, "can you block the transmitter?"

Instead Rindy shrieked. "We've got to get out! The roof is falling down!
The house is going to fall down on us! The roof, look at the roof!"

I looked up, transfixed by horror. I saw a wide rift open, saw the
skylight shatter and break, and daylight pouring through the cracking
walls, Rakhal snatched Rindy up, protecting her from the falling debris
with his head and shoulders. I grabbed Miellyn round the waist and we
ran for the rift in the buckling wall.

We shoved through just before the roof caved in and the walls collapsed,
and we found ourselves standing on a bare grassy hillside, looking down
in shock and horror as below us, section after section of what had been
apparently bare hill and rock caved in and collapsed into dusty rubble.

Miellyn screamed hoarsely. "Run. Run, hurry!"

I didn't understand, but I ran. I ran, my sides aching, blood streaming
from the forgotten flesh-wound in my side. Miellyn raced beside me and
Rakhal stumbled along, carrying Rindy.

Then the shock of a great explosion rocked the ground, hurling me down
full length, Miellyn falling on top of me. Rakhal went down on his
knees. Rindy was crying loudly. When I could see straight again, I
looked down at the hillside.

There was nothing left of Evarin's hideaway or the Mastershrine of
Nebran except a great, gaping hole, still oozing smoke and thick black
dust. Miellyn said aloud, dazed, "So _that's_ what he was going to do!"

It fitted the peculiar nonhuman logic of the Toymaker. He'd covered the
traces.

"Destroyed!" Rakhal raged. "All destroyed! The workrooms, the science of
the Toys, the matter transmitter--the minute we find it, it's
destroyed!" He beat his fists furiously. "Our one chance to learn--"

"We were lucky to get out alive," said Miellyn quietly. "Where on the
planet are we, I wonder?"

I looked down the hillside, and stared in amazement. Spread out on the
hillside below us lay the Kharsa, topped by the white skyscraper of the
HQ.

"I'll be damned," I said, "right here. We're home. Rakhal, you can go
down and make your peace with the Terrans, and Juli. And you, Miellyn--"
Before the others, I could not say what I was thinking, but I put my
hand on her shoulder and kept it there. She smiled, shakily, with a hint
of her old mischief. "I can't go into the Terran Zone looking like this,
can I? Give me that comb again. Rakhal, give me your shirtcloak, my
robes are torn."

"You vain, stupid female, worrying about a thing like that at a time
like this!" Rakhal's look was like murder. I put my comb in her hand,
then suddenly saw something in the symbols across her breasts. Before
this I had seen only the conventionalized and intricate glyph of the
Toad God. But now--

I reached out and ripped the cloth away.

"Cargill!" she protested angrily, crimsoning, covering her bare breasts
with both hands. "Is this the place? And before a child, too!"

I hardly heard. "Look!" I exclaimed. "Rakhal, look at the symbols
embroidered into the glyph of the God! You can read the old nonhuman
glyphs. You did it in the city of The Lisse. Miellyn said they were the
key to the transmitters! I'll bet the formula is written out there for
anyone to read!

"Anyone, that is, who _can_ read it! I can't, but I'll bet the formula
equations for the transmitters are carved on every Toad God glyph on
Wolf. Rakhal, it makes sense. There are two ways of hiding something.
Either keep it locked away, or hide it right out in plain sight. Whoever
bothers even to _look_ at a conventionalized Toad God? There are so many
_billions_ of them...."

He bent his head over the embroideries, and when he looked up his face
was flushed. "I believe--by the chains of Sharra, I believe you have it,
Race! It may take years to work out the glyphs, but I'll do it, or die
trying!" His scarred and hideous face looked almost handsome in
exultation, and I grinned at him.

"If Juli leaves enough of you, once she finds out how you maneuvered
her. Look, Rindy's fallen asleep on the grass there. Poor kid, we'd
better get her down to her mother."

"Right." Rakhal thrust the precious embroidery into his shirtcloak, then
cradled his sleeping daughter in his arms. I watched him with a curious
emotion I could not identify. It seemed to pinpoint some great change,
either in Rakhal or myself. It's not difficult to visualize one's sister
with children, but there was something, some strange incongruity in the
sight of Rakhal carrying the little girl, carefully tucking her up in a
fold of his cloak to keep the sharp breeze off her face.

Miellyn was limping in her thin sandals, and she shivered. I asked,
"Cold?"

"No, but--I don't believe Evarin is dead, I'm afraid he got away."

For a minute the thought dimmed the luster of the morning. Then I
shrugged. "He's probably buried in that big hole up there." But I knew I
would never be sure.

We walked abreast, my arm around the weary, stumbling woman, and Rakhal
said softly at last, "Like old times."

It wasn't old times, I knew. He would know it too, once his exultation
sobered. I had outgrown my love for intrigue, and I had the feeling this
was Rakhal's last adventure. It was going to take him, as he said, years
to work out the equations for the transmitter. And I had a feeling my
own solid, ordinary desk was going to look good to me in the morning.

But I knew now that I'd never run away from Wolf again. It was my own
beloved sun that was rising. My sister was waiting for me down below,
and I was bringing back her child. My best friend was walking at my
side. What more could a man want?

If the memory of dark, poison-berry eyes was to haunt me in nightmares,
they did not come into the waking world. I looked at Miellyn, took her
slender unmanacled hand in mine, and smiled as we walked through the
gates of the city. Now, after all my years on Wolf, I understood the
desire to keep their women under lock and key that was its ancient
custom. I vowed to myself as we went that I should waste no time finding
a fetter shop and having forged therein the perfect steel chains that
should bind my love's wrists to my key forever.






FANGS OF THE WOLF WORLD


At one time Race Cargill had been the best Terran Intelligence agent on
the complex and mysterious planet of Wolf. He had repeatedly imperiled
his life amongst the half-human and non-human creatures of the sullen
world. And he had repeatedly accomplished the fantastic missions until
his name was emblazoned with glory.

But that had all seemingly ended. For six long years he'd sat behind a
boring desk inside the fenced-in Terran Headquarters, cut off there ever
since he and a rival had scarred and ripped each other in blood-feud.

But when THE DOOR THROUGH SPACE swung suddenly open, the feud was on
again--and with it a plot designed to check and destroy the Terran
Empire.



The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Green World, by Hal Clement

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Green World

Author: Hal Clement

Release Date: February 25, 2020 [EBook #61509]

Language: English



Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE GREEN WORLD

                            BY HAL CLEMENT

                     The planet was an enigma--and
                        its solution was death!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Worlds of If Science Fiction, May 1963.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


                                   I

A zoo can be a rather depressing place, or it can be a lot of fun, or
it can be so dull as to make the mind wander elsewhere in self-defense.
In fairness to Emeraude, Robin Lampert had to concede that this one was
not quite in the last group. He had been able to keep his attention on
the exhibits. This was, in a way, surprising; for while a frontier town
has a perfect right to construct and maintain a zoo if it wishes, one
can hardly expect such a place to do a very good job.

The present example was, it must be admitted, not too good. The
exhibits were in fairly ordinary cages--barred for the larger
creatures, glassed for the smaller ones. No particular attempt had been
made to imitate natural surroundings. The place looked as artificial as
bare concrete and iron could make it. To a person used to the luxuries
provided their captive animals by the great cities of Earth and her
sister planets, the environment might have been a gloomy one.

Lampert did not feel that way. He had no particular standards of what
a zoo should be, and he would probably have considered attempts at
reproduction of natural habitat a distracting waste of time. He was not
a biologist, and had only one reason for visiting the Emeraude zoo; the
guide had insisted upon it.

There was, of course, some justice in the demand. A man who was taking
on the responsibility of caring for Lampert and his friends in the
jungles of Viridis had a right to require that his charges know what
they were facing. Lampert wanted to know, himself; so he had read
conscientiously every placard on every cage he had been able to find.
These had not been particularly informative, except in one or two
cases. Most of the facts had been obvious from a look at the cages'
inhabitants. Even a geophysicist could tell that the _Felodon_, for
example, was carnivorous--after one of the creatures had bared a rather
startling set of fangs by yawning in his face. The placard had told
little more. Less, in fact, than McLaughlin had already said about the
beasts.

On the other hand, it had been distinctly informative to read that a
small, salamanderlike thing in one of the glass-fronted cages was as
poisonous as the most dangerous of Terrestrial snakes. There had been
nothing in _its_ appearance to betray the fact. It was at this point,
in fact, that Lampert began really to awaken to what he was doing.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was aroused all the way by McLaughlin's explanation of a number
which appeared on a good many of the placards. Lampert had noticed
it already. The number was always, it seemed, different, though
always in the same place, and bore signs of much repainting. It bore
no relationship to any classification scheme that Lampert knew, and
neither of the paleontologists could enlighten him. Eventually he
turned to McLaughlin and asked--not expecting a useful answer, since
the man was a guide rather than a naturalist. However, the tall man
gave a faint smile and replied without hesitation.

"That's just the number of human deaths known to have been caused by
that animal this year." It did not comfort Lampert too greatly to learn
that the year used was that of Viridis, some seventeen times as long as
that of Earth. For the _Felodon_ the number stood at twelve. This was
not very much when compared to the annual losses from tigers in India
during the nineteenth century. But this reflection was not particularly
consoling. The human population of Viridis was so very small compared
to that of India.

Lampert examined the creature thoughtfully. It was of moderate size
as carnivores went--some four feet long without the tail--and looked
rather harmless as long as it kept its mouth shut. It was lying in the
center of the cage, so it was difficult to judge the length of its
legs. It showed no trace of the tendency displayed by many captive
animals, of lying against a wall or in a corner when relaxed; and there
was none of the restless pacing so characteristic of Earth's big cats
under similar circumstances. It simply lay and stared back at Lampert,
so steadily that he never was sure whether or not the cold eyes were
provided with lids.

"I never liked reptiles back home, but I think I like these creatures
less." The voice of Mitsuitei, the little archaeologist, cut into
Lampert's reverie.

"Don't let Hans or Ndomi hear you mention them in the same breath with
reptiles," he answered.

"Well, I'm not fond of frogs, either."

"I'm afraid that wouldn't make them much happier. These are not even
amphibians."

"They certainly are. I've been told that they lay eggs in water and
have a tadpole stage--"

"I should have said they aren't Amphibians with a capital A. That is,
they don't belong to the order Amphibia, since they are not genetically
related to the corresponding order on Earth, as far as we know.
Sulewayo gets quite peeved at people who try to lump terrestrial and
extraterrestrial creatures in the same order. I believe that whoever
decides things for biologists has decreed that on Viridis the dominant
order is to be called Amphibids. It's a quibble, if you like. But I can
see why they insist on it."

"Mph. So can I. Even now you sometimes run into people who go to great
length to make you admit that there are pyramids both in Egypt and
Mexico--and for that matter on Regulus Six--and infer from that that
their makers had something in the way of common culture. I say these
things are amphibians, without the Capital A, because they are at home
both on land and in water. And a dictionary would back me up. I don't
insist that they're related to those of Earth--any more than a Mayan
pyramid has anything but geometry in common with an Egyptian one."

"But I've heard--"

"I'm sure you have, but it's a sore subject. I'll be open-minded if
you like and admit that some Egyptian _may_ have been blown across the
Atlantic and taught architecture to the Americans, but I don't regard
it as proved. What was that remark of yours--'as far as we know'--in
connection with the ancestry of the amphibids? That's being at least as
open-minded as I was, I would say."

       *       *       *       *       *

"In a way, yes. I don't think anyone has seriously suggested that these
things originated on Earth. However, a puzzle we're here to investigate
still exists. How there could be life forms corresponding to those
which took a good half billion years to evolve elsewhere, on a planet
which by geophysical evidence hasn't been solid for forty million?
_Someone_ certainly has suggested that the world was stocked from
outside. But certainly it hasn't been proved. I don't think anyone has
tried very hard, either. And I certainly won't, on a planet with as
much radioactivity as this one."

"You think that would account for high-speed evolution?"

Lampert shrugged his shoulders, and began to stroll toward the next
cage. "Ask the paleontologists. My opinion doesn't carry much weight."

Mitsuitei nodded, started to follow the geophysicist, and then turned
back to stare once more at the carnivore lying a few feet away. It
stared back unblinkingly.

The visit to the zoo was one of several, which continued until Lampert,
Mitsuitei and the two paleontologists were able to identify each of a
dozen animals which were most concerned in the death rate of Viridis.
Apparently McLaughlin was not the only guide who did this. The zoo was
equipped to give a "final examination" in which any creature the guide
desired could be seen on a television screen from viewpoints quite
different from those obtained in front of the cages. McLaughlin proved
hard to satisfy.

Lampert did not blame him. He knew a lot about Viridis, of course. He
had not only read of it in ordinary reference material, but had done
much of the laboratory work on drill cores brought from the planet. His
name had been one of those attached to the report giving the probable
age of the planet's crust. At that time, however, the mental picture
he held had been of continent distribution, rock strata, zones of
diastrophic stress and the like. The question of the appearance, or
even the existence, of plants, animals and people had simply never
risen to conscious level in his mind.

That had changed, shortly before his arrival. The tramp spacer which
had brought him and his group to Viridis had had to orbit about the
world in free fall for several hours while its obsolete drive elements
"cooled," and the passengers had examined the planet.

Lampert, oddly enough, had been as much impressed by the night side
as by the sunlit hemisphere. The latter had shown, at twenty thousand
kilometers, a fairly standard land and water pattern. The most
unusual thing about it had been the almost perfect uniformity of the
land coloration, a light green which bespoke, or at least implied, a
virtually complete covering of vegetation.

By the time the ship had circled to the dark side, however, it was much
closer to the surface; and Lampert would have expected to make out
luminous sparks and patches of towns and cities by the hundreds.

He saw just two, and was not really sure of those. For the rest,
the planet was a vast, gray-black circle occulting a portion of
the Milky Way. It was not absolutely black, either. Its contrast
with the background of the galaxy was diminished by the glow in the
upper atmosphere arising from the recombination of water molecules
dissociated during the day by Beta Librae's fierce ultraviolet light.
The center of the circle was darker than the edges, where the line of
sight penetrated through more of the luminous gas.

But even this sight, unusual as it was, did not affect Lampert as
much as the lack of city lights. He had done field work in lonely,
wild places before, of course; but until now he had always had the
feeling of being in an island of wilderness more or less surrounded by
civilization. On Viridis it was the civilized spots which formed the
islands. And very small islands they were. There was no known native
intelligent race, and settlements of alien races such as the men from
Earth were still few and far between.

So Lampert was prepared for McLaughlin's care in readying the group for
its trip. He was even glad of it, though he would probably not have
admitted to being at all afraid of the venture. He would simply have
said that it was nice to have a guide who took his responsibilities
seriously.

       *       *       *       *       *

That of course, did not mean that Lampert was intending to disavow any
of his own responsibilities. He, like McLaughlin, had been keeping a
careful eye on the other members of the group, looking for the signs of
impatience or ill temper which could be the seeds of serious trouble
if the journey were prolonged. He had come to tentative conclusions
about this during the flight from Earth, but was pleased to see that,
apparently, men who could stand the enforced companionship of a tramp
spacer were also able to retain their senses of humor in the steam-bath
environment of Viridis.

Sulewayo, of course, had seemed safe from the first. A man who has
spent his formative years in the Congo rain forests where his ancestors
had lived for generations was ideal for this world. His sense of humor
was extremely durable. Lampert suspected that it might sometimes be
a little too good. Mitsuitei, the archaeologist, had once or twice
appeared to resent some of the young fellow's remarks, though not to
an extent where Lampert had felt the need for introducing his own
personality into the matter. Krendall, nearly twice Sulewayo's age,
seemed to be a check on the younger man anyway; he was a member of the
same profession, and Sulewayo would have been the first to admit his
respect for Krendall's work in the field. Under the circumstances,
Lampert felt that the group was well matched.

Whether it would be able to do the job it had undertaken was another
matter. The news reports had spoken glibly of the expedition which was
going to "solve the mysteries of Viridis once and for all." Lampert,
like any other scientist, knew perfectly well that the solution of the
present crop of mysteries about the planet would almost certainly be
achieved only at the cost of creating an even greater number of new
ones. Even the guide, who was admittedly no scientist, had expressed a
similar opinion, though his was based on a general pessimism bred of
familiarity with the planet. However, he had undertaken to get them to
the sort of country they wanted; and from then on the problem solving
was not his affair.

The scientists, whatever may have been their feeling about matters
of personal safety, were eager to start, which tended to cause rapid
progress in McLaughlin's animal recognition school. Another factor
tending toward the same result was that there was little in Emeraude
for such men to do, except learn. The town was still small. It had a
spaceport and airport, which furnished little entertainment, docks
which could amuse for a while but not indefinitely, and warehouses
which were completely uninteresting to geologists, paleontologists and
archaeologists. There was no museum. The numerous specimens of mineral,
animal, and vegetable matter collected on the planet invariably wound
up on outbound spacecraft. The zoo, which the town maintained for
purely practical reasons, was about the only thing that was left.

In consequence, not many days passed before all four scientists were
able to meet McLaughlin's requirements. Sulewayo was annoyed by the
guide's addition of a short postgraduate course in edible flora and
fauna, but admitted that the knowledge might well be useful. However,
he made no secret of his satisfaction when McLaughlin finally announced
that, as far as he was concerned, the journey could begin at any time.

All four rechecked their equipment--that of Lampert was by far the
bulkiest--and, everyone satisfied with the group's ability both to
live and to work in the steam bath that was the world of Viridis, they
watched the harbor on which Emeraude was located shrink and blend into
the rest of the shoreline behind them. Within a few minutes only the
restless surface of Green Bay was visible through the ever-present
haze....

       *       *       *       *       *

The jaws of the Felodon abruptly stopped moving and its forelegs
straightened, bringing the fanged head up and away from the kill it had
just made.

If a man had been there he would neither have seen nor heard the
disturbing factor, for a thunderstorm a few miles to the west was
emitting an almost continuous growl and the towering trees shut out
nearly all the sky. Nevertheless the beast appeared to sense something
out of the ordinary. It twisted its short but supple neck ceaselessly,
rocking its head from side to side to bring first one eye and tympanic
membrane to bear on the jungle roof, then the other. Sometimes it froze
motionless for a long moment, and a watcher would have sworn that its
minute brain was struggling with a thought. If this were the case, the
thought must have been both unusual and unpleasant, for under normal
circumstances nothing short of overwhelming force would have driven a
Felodon from its meal. Now, however, the hind legs slowly straightened
and the creature came erect. For another moment it stood motionless,
took a step or two away from the body, and stopped again.

Abruptly, as though in defiance of some impulse, it turned back,
lowered the murderously armed head and tore a huge mouthful of flesh
from the carcass. Then, like a child leaving the cookie jar as its
mother approaches, it leaped away into the underbrush, still swallowing.

Its speed was high and it did not have far to go. The jungle thinned in
a few hundred meters to the point where some sky became visible, and a
short distance further the riotous plant growth vanished completely to
give place to an open beach. Here the creature stopped and repeated its
search of the hemisphere overhead.

This time it found what it sought.

Along the line of the beach, perhaps a kilometer out to sea, the thing
came flying. It must have been utterly different from anything the
Felodon could ever have seen, but no sign of fear appeared in the
beast's demeanor. It stood on the beach, well away from the shelter of
the jungle and certainly in full view from above, its head following
the flying object and a fearful snarl--which might or might not have
been its normal expression of hunger--giving its face an almost
mammalian cast.

This thing was larger by far than any flying creature the Felodon
knew--incomparably larger than the Felodon itself. Its details were
hard to make out through the hazy air, and would have meant little to
the flesh-eater in any case. The most noticeable characteristic was the
steady, whistling hum that proceeded from it. There was a suggestion of
motion, too, which might have been wings or might not. Actually, the
thing was little more than a dark dot against the purplish-blue sky.
At the moment no sunlight was striking it directly, for it was in the
shadow of the thunderhead. Perhaps this prevented the animal below from
being bothered by another unusual feature it possessed, though even the
appearance of this last characteristic produced no sign of fear when
it finally came. This occurred shortly after the flying thing passed,
while it was still quite close. It moved out of the shadow of the great
cloud and, as the greenish sunlight struck it, the eyes of the watching
creature were dazzled by a gleam of metal.

This was certainly something it had never seen, for native metal on
Viridis is just about as common as it was on Earth before men began
to pry it out of its ores. Viridis has an oxygen-rich atmosphere and
plenty of moisture, and pure aluminum or chromium just doesn't occur in
that environment.

Strange or not, however, the gleam did not appear to affect the
Felodon's rudimentary sense of fear. For just an instant it paused as
the flying thing hummed on into the northeast; just once it looked back
toward the point in the jungle where it had left its kill--a point
from which eloquent sounds were now coming, betraying the presence of
carrion-eaters; just one step it took in that direction. Then it turned
away as abruptly as it had from the meal a few minutes before. With
the same purposeful air it had displayed on the way out of the jungle
it headed down the beach in the direction taken by the flying piece of
metal.

Though the animal's speed was high, the humming soon faded out ahead of
it.

However, this did not seem to cause any inconvenience; the Felodon
moved on, with a gait that might have been called a fast walk or a
slow run, never hesitating, never pausing. It remained silent. Smaller
creatures which might have given it a wide berth had they heard the
hunting call now sprang away almost from underfoot. It paid them no
heed, but continued on its way while the green sun settled into the
jungle behind and to its left. The fact that its recent kill was now
little more than a skeleton did not seem to bother it. Perhaps it had
forgotten.


                                  II

The humming was a little more noticeable in the helicopter cabin, but
not much. John McLaughlin, sprawled as comfortably as his two meters
of height would permit in its confines, had noticed the sound only at
first; and after remarking to himself that they seemed to be building
better ion turbines since he had left Earth, had permitted his thoughts
to wander in other directions. These did not concern Felodons; the
interest there was not, at the moment, mutual. The rather crowded cabin
offered material enough for consideration.

McLaughlin was not a scientist by training, but neither was he the
sort of guide that might have been found in Yukon or Amazon territory
a few centuries back. He did not despise people merely because they
were, by his standards, greenhorns. He knew that each of the other men
now sharing this cabin with him was an expert in his own field, even
though none of them, in spite of his training, would have been able
to survive for more than a day in the jungles of Viridis. After all,
why should they have learned such an art? There were other things worth
learning, and one could always hire McLaughlin if a need to visit the
jungles developed. Since this particular party had done just that, they
were evidently a fairly practical crew.

They were not talking very much, which from the guide's viewpoint was
an additional point in their favor. They already knew what they planned
to do, and saw no point in repeating what had already been said. Of
course, if they should fail to find the area they were seeking, there
would be talk--all of it aimed at McLaughlin; but he had no fear on
that score. There were few enough mountains on Viridis, and of those
few by far the greater number were volcanic cinder cones. When these
scientists had specified a region of tilted-block or folded mountains,
the guide had been more than dubious at first. It had taken him time to
recall that there was a small area meeting these specifications less
than fifteen hundred miles from the spaceport at Emeraude. He was not
himself a geologist, but pictures and diagrams had been used freely in
explaining to him just what was wanted, and he was quite certain that
the party would be satisfied with what he had to offer.

A slight rocking in the hitherto steady motion of the helicopter roused
him from this line of reverie. They were already several hours from
Emeraude, and McLaughlin realized that he should have been paying more
attention to the course. He straightened up in his seat and looked out.

To the left and ahead was a huge thunderhead, whose satellite air
currents had probably caused the variation on the helicopter's flight
path. More important, there was land in sight. McLaughlin knew that
the long flight across Green Bay was over. He waited, however, before
saying anything. He had given the pilot full instructions as to the
route before take-off, and he wanted to see whether those had been
clear enough.

Apparently they had. Without asking questions or even looking back at
the guide, Lampert swung the aircraft from its northerly heading onto
one which paralleled the shoreline, a turn of about forty-five degrees
to the right, and the helicopter resumed its steady flight.

McLaughlin did not relax. From now on the route was a little more
difficult to follow, and there were not too many more hours of
daylight. The shadowless night glow which made vision relatively easy
after sunset did not lend itself to aerial navigation over a very
poorly mapped world. He kept his eyes on the shoreline, watching for
the landmarks he had not seen for many months--and then not from above.
He did not see the Felodon which became so intensely interested in the
helicopter. If he had, he would have attached little importance to the
creature's presence, and he could not possibly have seen its actions in
sufficient detail to catch any peculiarities in them.

       *       *       *       *       *

No one else saw the beast, either. The change in course had roused most
of the party from whatever lines of thought they had been pursuing,
as it had McLaughlin, and most of them were looking out the windows;
but they were interested in what lay ahead, not below. Sometime soon
the relative monotony of jungle and swamp should be relieved by rising
ground, indicating the nearness of the mountains they sought; and the
helicopter's flight altitude of some two thousand feet was low enough
to permit any significant rise of terrain to be visible. Sulewayo, the
younger paleontologist, made a remark to that effect, which passed
without comment. Real conversation did not start for some minutes.

"As I understand it, we have one more course change before we see the
mountains. Isn't there a river we have to follow for a time, String?"
Lampert asked the question without looking back.

"That's right," McLaughlin replied. "It runs into Green Bay from almost
straight north, and about a hundred miles inland makes a turn to the
east. That's general direction. It winds a lot."

"It would, in country as nearly peneplaned as this," muttered Lampert
under his breath.

"The mountains you want start about sixty airline miles from the big
bend. If you trust your gyro compass enough, you can head for them
directly from the river mouth. If you have any doubt about being able
to hold a line, though, follow the river. I doubt that there are any
good landmarks otherwise. Of course, I've only seen the area from the
surface and close to the river, but I'd be very surprised if there was
anything around but the swamp-and-jungle mess we're over now."

"So would I. We'll stay in sight of the river, but edge as far east as
visibility lets us." The guide approved this plan with a nod, and the
conversation lapsed for several minutes. The silence was finally broken
once more by Sulewayo.

"I hope these hills we're looking for have something of interest. This
planet is the most monotonous I've seen yet. Where it isn't jungle it's
swamp; and the only difference between the two is that the jungle grows
higher trees." McLaughlin's face crinkled into something like a smile,
and he sat up once more.

"There's one other difference," he remarked.

"What's that?"

"In the jungle, dressed and equipped as you now are, you might live
as long as a day. In the swamp, five minutes would be an optimistic
estimate." Sulewayo looked down at the shorts and boots which
constituted his costume, and shrugged.

"I admit the point, but I don't expect to go out this way. What I
actually wear and carry, beside my professional equipment, is up to
you. Also, I was referring to appearances. Beta Lyrae Nine looked
almost as dull as this world from above, and I'll bet it was as
least as deadly when you reached the surface." McLaughlin had never
visited New Sheol, and admitted it, but it took more than that to stop
Sulewayo.

"Actually, I was hoping that these hills didn't turn out to be so
covered with soil that any fossils would be yards underground at the
best. Do you recall any places where the rock strata themselves were
exposed--steep cliffs, or deep stream gullies, perhaps?"

"Definitely yes. The big river cuts right across the range, or else
starts in it. It comes out from a canyon like that of the Colorado on
Earth, though a lot less spectacular. Actually I don't know anything
about the country more than a couple of miles up that canyon. I was
stopped on the river by rapids, and couldn't get my amphib out on
either side. For the most part there simply wasn't any shore, just
cliff."

"Quite a current, I suppose?" Lampert cut in.

"Actually, not very much. I went swimming in worse, on Earth."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That hardly ties in with steep cliffs and a river cutting through a
mountain range."

McLaughlin shrugged. "You're the geologist. Look it over for yourself.
Maybe you'll just have to add it to the list of things you don't
understand about Viridis."

"Fair enough." The pilot-commander-geophysicist nodded. "I did not mean
to imply that you were not reporting accurately; but the situation you
have described would be a trifle queer on more planets than Earth, I
assure you. Still, with luck your cliffs will show fossils. Maybe we'll
solve one problem in exchange for another. Life could be worse."

"Just hope we don't solve the first one by proving that certain
geophysicists have been talking through their hats," the hitherto
silent Krendall remarked.

"Eh?"

"What would you do if we found a chunk of, say, pegmatite with
radioactive inclusions that checked out at half a billion years instead
of the thirty-odd million you lads have been giving us as a time scale
for this mudball?"

"I should check very carefully under what circumstances and in what
location you found it. If necessary, I would admit that the problem had
disappeared. Half a billion years would account reasonably well for
the evolutionary status of this planet's life forms, though actually
it took Earth a good deal longer to reach a corresponding condition.
Frankly, however, I do not expect any such find. We spotted our borings
rather carefully, and should have taken pretty representative samples."

"I'm sure you did. If your results are right, it just means that the
problem belongs to Hans and me--and String here had better find us a
lot of fossils."

"You'll have to find your own bones," McLaughlin replied. "I'm taking
you to the sort of ground you want. A fossil would have to show its
teeth in my face before I'd recognize it--and then I'd probably shoot
before I realized it was dead."

"All right," Sulewayo chuckled. "You take care of the quick, and
Krendall and I will worry about the dead. Dr. Lampert can figure out
how old the fossils are if we find any, and Take can look for stone
axes."

"Or automobiles, or pieces of space-drive tubes, or other artifacts,"
Mitsuitei answered the implied dig. "I plan to sit back and loaf,
unless and until one of you lads turns up a skull that could have held
more than half an ounce of brain. I am going to be very unscientific. I
believe that there is nothing on this planet for an archeologist to do,
and I am not going to work myself into a lather to prove myself wrong."

"You've formed an opinion rather early in the game," Lampert remarked.
"After all, remarkably little of this world has been explored. Why
should there not be traces of occupation in unknown areas such as we
are about to visit?"

"Because, while most of the planet remains unexplored, a very large
number of places which should have furnished traces of habitation have
failed to do so. We've surveyed many spots which were, or are, ideal
for cities based on ocean commerce, or market centers for what could be
farm areas, or spaceports. After a while you get to a point where such
finds can be predicted with some certainty. As I said, I am far from
certain, and it would be most unreasonable to say I was; but in the
area we are seeking, I see no reason to expect anything of interest to
my profession."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lampert shrugged and brought his full attention back to the controls.
The sun was slowly sinking, bringing into bolder relief the
irregularities of the ground as their shadows lengthened. However,
these irregularities were still few, and the jungle roof was for the
most part evenly illuminated. As McLaughlin had expected, there was
nothing that could be used as a landmark. In its own way, the forest
was as featureless as the ocean. The pilot kept his gaze riveted ahead,
in expectation of the river which the guide had told them to expect;
and presently he saw it. Reflecting the color of the faintly purplish
sky, it stood out fairly well against the gray-green of the jungle,
once they were close enough to penetrate the ever-present haze.

With McLaughlin nodding silent approval, Lampert swung the helicopter
to the left and proceeded more nearly straight north, angling gradually
toward the river. Now the jungle took on a little more feature, though
still nothing that could be used for guidance. At fairly frequent
intervals a glint of water became visible through the trees directly
below them. Evidently numerous tributaries were feeding into the larger
stream; but none of these could be seen from any distance. For the most
part they were so narrow that the trees growing on each side met above
them.

"I should think that one could cover a great deal of that territory
in a boat," remarked Mitsuitei, after nearly half an hour in the new
direction.

"You'd need an amphib," replied the guide. "A boat is all right for the
main stream, but all that stuff coming in from the sides is so shallow
that you'd never make progress with anything else. I've tried most of
them in my own croc. Every time I've had to crawl rather than float
before I was a mile from the river."

"How is the ground? Swamp?"

"No, it's fairly solid for the most part. It doesn't show very well
yet even with the sun as low as it is, but the general ground level is
pushing up slowly all along here. We'll be in sight of your mountains
before too long."

This declaration brought all members of the group to the windows, all
five pairs of eyes covering the quadrant of vision below and ahead.
The meandering river was now on their left, but just visible through
the haze ahead of them was the eastward turn McLaughlin had predicted.
Lampert headed a little more to the right in an attempt to cut the
final corner, but the helicopter reached the winding purplish band
before their goal came in sight in spite of this effort. The flyer
hummed on.

The bars of sunlight admitted by the side ports had been nearly
horizontal when the turn to the east cut them off. They were only
slightly more so when McLaughlin gave a satisfied grunt, and nodded
forward. The others followed his gaze.

       *       *       *       *       *

Straight ahead, little could be seen because of the "bright spot"
familiar to every flyer--the shadowless area directly opposite the sun,
centered on the aircraft's own shadow. To either side, however, the
promised hills rose out of the jungle to heights exceeding the present
flight altitude of the helicopter. Presumably the canyon from which
the river was supposed to emerge lay in their path. So, at any rate,
Lampert remarked; and McLaughlin confirmed him.

"I'd cruise pretty slowly from here on," the guide added. "There are a
number of hills on this side of the range. Even if you're not worried
about running into one of them, you may want to examine them for
exposed rocks."

"Mightn't it be better to find a spot to park before the sun goes
down?" countered the pilot.

"It might. What I said still holds, though. You haven't much chance
finding one inside the canyon without quite a long search, and it will
be best to stay this side of the range until sunrise. Remember my
trouble in finding a beach for the amphib while I was inside."

"All right. Can we land in jungle, though?"

"Not unless you want to fold the blades in flight and drop the last
twenty to fifty feet. Hunt for a fairly high hill. They're usually
somewhat bare on top, and you'll at least have room for the rotors to
swing. If you don't like that, or can't find a suitable hilltop, land
on the river and tie up to the shore--but again, don't try that in the
canyon. You're unlikely to find anything to tie up to."

"This machine has good lights, I suppose you realize--but then, you
know the planet. As far as I'm concerned, what you say goes. Are the
chances of a hill equally good on either side of the river?"

"Maybe a little better to the north. The ground looked higher that way
when I came out of the canyon." Lampert obediently eased the flyer's
course a trifle to the left, and everyone aboard watched the ground as
it began to rise toward them.

At first the "hills" were merely low mounds, as jungle-covered as the
level ground; but very quickly these gave way to higher, steeper rises
on whose tops the larger trees grew very sparsely. One of these was
quickly selected after a brief, questioning glance from Lampert to the
guide, and the helicopter began to descend.

"We'd better take what we have now." McLaughlin amplified the nod with
which he had answered the pilot. "This belt of hills is pretty narrow,
and we'd be into the main range in another minute or two."

"Do you know whether the other side is as abrupt, or whether--"
Lampert's question was cut short by an exclamation from Mitsuitei.

"Rob! Hold it a moment!"

Lampert was a good pilot; the increase in rotor-blade pitch under his
deft fingers brought the helicopter's descent to as nearly an instant
halt as was possible to anything airborne. Not until he had also
checked horizontal drift did he look in the direction the archaeologist
was indicating. By then, everyone else had seen what had attracted
Mitsuitei's attention.

Between the hill on which Lampert had intended to land and the river
were several lower eminences. These were now almost directly south
of the helicopter, and every detail upon them was shown in exaggerated
relief by shadows stretching to the east. It was one of these hills
which Mitsuitei was examining with the utmost care.

It was covered with jungle, like the rest; but a curious regularity
was visible. The trees appeared, at this distance, to be of the usual
species; but some of them towered over their fellows by a good thirty
or forty feet.

This in itself was not odd. The whole jungle was studded with such
projections. However, on this hill the taller trees seemed to have
been planted in orderly rows. Five solid lines of them were visible,
extending roughly north and south so that their long shadows made them
stand out sharply. They were separated from each other by perhaps a
quarter of a mile. Running at right angles to them were other, less
outstanding rows of vegetation. Lampert was not quite sure that these
were not the product of his own imagination, since the trees which
formed them rose little if any above the general level. The whole
hilltop, however, suggested something to every man who saw it. The
archaeologist was the first to give voice to the impression.

"That was a city!"

       *       *       *       *       *

No one answered. Some of the scientists must have thought that he was
jumping from one opinion to its direct opposite on the strength of some
rather feeble evidence; but the thought went unvoiced. They simply
looked--except for Sulewayo, who moved to turn a camera on the scene.

"Rob! Can we land there? Now?" Lampert had anticipated this question,
but could have answered it without hesitation in any case.

"Sure--if you don't mind using String's method of folding the blades
and falling in." The archaeologist turned to the guide.

"Will it be hard to get there on foot from this hill we're heading
for?" McLaughlin shrugged.

"From two hours to a day, depending on undergrowth."

"We have torches. We can burn our way if the vegetation is dense."

"Half a day, then. You'll still have to let the steam clear pretty
often. There's little wind below the trees, and the air is saturated."

"Well, that place will be worth more than a day of anyone's time. Maybe
tomorrow we can--"

"Hold up a moment, Take!" Lampert cut in, before Mitsuitei could
develop his plan further. "If you take String out to that hill
before take-off tomorrow, what do the rest of us do for the day--or
week--before you get back? What we'd better do is note this place,
go on to the canyon, set up camp, get the fossil hunting going, and
_after_ our routine is set up and we know the more common dangers of
the neighborhood, perhaps we can spare McLaughlin for a day or two so
that you can look over your city--if that's what it is."

Lampert's last few words banished the hurt expression from the little
man's face.

"What do you mean--_if_? What else could make a pattern like that? It
must have been streets."

"Or a joint system in the rock below, trapping enough water--or
draining enough off--to permit superior growth along the joint lines.
Or a system of tilted strata doing the same thing--"

"If it's the latter, it's just the sort of thing you want, too. It
should bring fossils near the surface."

The pilot nodded slowly. "You do make it sound more attractive. Still,
I think we'd better follow the original plan, except that I may come
with you myself when we do get around to looking that hill over."
He turned back to the controls and resumed their descent. Mitsuitei
subsided once more to his seat. The archaeologist realized the wisdom
of Lampert's decision, but did not particularly enjoy the enforced
wait. His face showed the fact, until Sulewayo opened the camera he
had been using and passed him the sheaf of prints on which the "city"
appeared. As the young paleontologist had expected, these so occupied
the little man's attention that he did not even notice the landing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The helicopter settled to the hilltop which Lampert had chosen, in the
center of a quadrangle of trees growing just far enough apart to give
clearance to the rotors.

The sun was nearly gone. It had vanished in the haze as they dropped
below flight altitude. McLaughlin knew that in all too short a time
it would be as dark as Viridis ever became. The nights could be
dangerous. There was quite enough light to deceive a man into thinking
he could see clearly, and an inexperienced wanderer might not realize
until too late that details were not really distinct and that there was
no clue to direction in the shadowless glow. McLaughlin himself could
use the moons, but he doubted that any other member of the party could
do so. They--or their motions--took knowing.

He was pleased to note that there was no general rush to the door as
the great blades whistled gently to a stop. The scientists turned to
him, but remained where they were. No words were spoken, but Lampert's
relinquishment of command was evident. McLaughlin unfolded his length
from the seat.

"There are two choices," he said. "We can sleep in the 'copter, or
outside. The first will be a trifle cramped, but the second will
require either a double circle of charged wire or two armed guards on
constant watch. With no offense meant, I doubt that anyone but myself
in this group could qualify as a night guard."

"Why a double circle of wire?" asked Lampert.

"The wire will stop only an animal in control of its motion when it
makes contact. If a Felodon were to spring from a little distance, it
might not like the wire--but it could hardly stop until it reached the
ground, and there should then be a similar barrier ahead of it."

"We could use a lethal voltage."

"Even if you want to take the risk--what is lethal to a Felodon will
be equally so to a man--you'll have the insulation problem. There's
always a darned good chance of rain before morning, and--"

"We might as well stay inside, then. We have the electric equipment,
but it will take quite a while to set it up; and it hardly seems worth
the trouble for a one-night stand. As you say, it will be a little
crowded here. But we've all slept under worse conditions. Would anyone
rather set up the fence?"

There was no answer to this question. At Lampert's direction a meal
was served and eaten. Then the scientists settled down for the night,
some to sleep at once, others to review plans or recheck equipment.
Mitsuitei occupied himself with making careful measurements of the
photographs he had been given; he was the last asleep....

Scores of miles to the southwest, the Felodon reached the river. It
was no longer on the coast; some time since it had swerved inland. A
casual compass check would have revealed that it was still heading
straight for the now grounded helicopter. Even McLaughlin could not
have told what led the creature on, familiar as he was with the animals
of Viridis; but no one who had watched the thing since the flying
machine had passed could have doubted its goal. Actually, it was now on
the same bank of the river as the helicopter; but whatever guided it
pointed across the great stream.

Without hesitating, the amphibid plunged into the water.


                                  III

The men were awake well before sunrise. The human body takes a long,
long time to accustom its physiological cycle to a change in something
as fundamental as the length of day. But they did not attempt to resume
flight until the green star was once more in the sky. Mitsuitei put
forth a tentative suggestion that the interval be spent in a visit to
the "city" site he had seen the night before, but McLaughlin vetoed it.

"Going on foot through the jungle at night is a fool's game, though I
admit people sometimes get away with it. I could get you there, but
even if we turned around and came back immediately there'd be a lot of
time wasted. Dr. Lampert went over all that last night. Look, that hill
of yours is right by the river. After we're set up in the main camp, it
will be relatively easy to drop down to it. We have collapsible boats.
Unless we camp above the rapids, you won't even have to fly. Even if
we're farther upstream and do have to use the 'copter, the trip will
take only a few minutes."

Mitsuitei had agreed, though with evident reluctance. No one else had
any desire to go out; there was not enough rock exposed on the hilltop
to excite the paleontologists, the hill itself presented nothing
unusual to Lampert's geophysical eye, and McLaughlin was in no hurry
to get to work. They waited, therefore, until the "Claw"--Lampert had
recalled Beta Librae's Arabic name--had risen and the skyglow been
replaced by its emerald brilliance; then the journey was resumed.

It took, as McLaughlin had said the night before, only a few minutes.
The hill where they had slept was less than five miles from the face
of the mountain range. Only the haze of the night before had prevented
their seeing it. The river emerged from a canyon some fifteen hundred
feet in depth, a couple of miles to the south of their eastward course
line.

Lampert, in hopes that the usual haze might not be too evident at
this hour, climbed above the level of the cliff top to get an idea of
the mountain range as a whole; but he was disappointed. For nearly an
hour he cruised over the area, now several thousand feet above the
western cliffs and then well below them. It slowly became evident that
the range represented a single block, which had been tilted upward
on the west side. The opposite slopes were very gentle, merging so
gradually into the general peneplain level of the continent that it was
impossible to say decisively just where the range ended. The river did
originate somewhere beyond the range, cutting entirely through it, and
as the guide had said, its current was not particularly swift. Lampert
had much explaining to do. After all, water should have drained toward
the low side of the block.

"It seems evident," he summed up his ideas as they hovered once
more over the western cliffs, "that the river was here before this
particular bit of block tilting occurred. This planet does have some
diastrophic forces left in its crust, in spite of its generally smooth
nature. Apparently this just represents the end of a long period of
rest, such as the earth has had several times. As a matter of fact, I
have no business calling it the end of such a period; it might be fifty
million years before the world will be generally mountainous again."

"Why do you say _again_, Rob?" asked Krendall. "According to findings
of your own colleagues, this planet has hardly been solid for forty
million years. Could it be this flat now if it had ever been markedly
mountainous in that time?"

"Good point. I don't know, but would be inclined to doubt it. Well,
we'll cancel the 'again' if it will make you happy. In any case the
block forming this range came up slowly enough so that even this river,
with its relatively low cutting power, was able to keep pace with it
and not be deflected. Probably--" he glanced at Mitsuitei--"the rock of
which it is made will turn out to be quite strongly jointed. It looks
rather that way from above--the river course, I mean. A lot of right
angle, or what were once right angle, bends."

"We'd better go down and look for a camp along the river somewhere,"
put in Mitsuitei. "Let's start at the cliff end. Then we may wind up
reasonably close to that hill--and I still want to look it over, joints
or no joints."

"Fair enough." Lampert eased the helicopter once more downward until
they were only a few hundred feet above the jungle, moved along
the cliff face until they reached the canyon, and, very cautiously,
entered. His caution proved unnecessary. The air currents in no way
resembled the treacherous hodge-podge he had expected, at least not
over the center of the river. A steady wind was blowing into the canyon
mouth, but did not seem to be eddying very much even at the numerous
bends.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the archeologist's annoyance, two sets of rapids were passed before
a place was reached where the bank was wide enough for a camp site.
At this point a fairly large side canyon entered the main one from
the north. Where its central stream joined the main river a gravelly
area several acres in extent offered itself for the purposes of the
scientists. Lampert brought the helicopter down on this surface. The
surroundings looked promising; the cliffs facing both canyons looked
reasonably accessible on foot for some distance, at least along their
bases. Climbing appeared to be impracticable for the most part, as the
rock walls rose sheer except for the occasional joints which Lampert
had predicted; but the material was certainly sedimentary, and everyone
but the guide tumbled out of the flyer with a glow in his eyes which
promised a speedy scattering of the party.

With some difficulty, McLaughlin got them together. A site, some twenty
yards square, was selected against one of the cliffs and fenced off.
The big, prefabricated sheet-metal "tent" was erected and its tiny
conditioning unit installed; sleeping and cooking gear were placed
inside. That completed, geologist's hammers appeared as though by
magic; and McLaughlin realized that he had better do some explaining
before he lost a scientist or two. Once more he called them together.

"All right, gentlemen. I admit the necessary camp work has been done,
and there should be nothing to keep you from your projects. Still,
there are some things you had better understand.

"Having canyon walls on all sides does not make this place safe. Every
carnivore and poison lizard on this planet could get to us by way
of the river--even the ones which look like land animals. Every one
of them could swim under water from a point out of sight in either
direction to where you are standing; and if you think he would have
to come up at least once to judge your position, guess again. I don't
know how they do it, and neither does anyone else; but a Felodon could
submerge around the bend up there, come up behind the helicopter out
of sight of any one of us and be waiting when we marched around the
machine. Therefore, go armed at all times. I know you want to cover
a lot of ground, and can't stick in one party; but I insist that you
do not go anywhere alone. Take at least one companion. Preferably one
who is not a member of your own field. If you two paleontologists are
together, for example, it seems more than likely that you'll be found
with your heads in the same hole in the rock. When one of you has to
dig, make sure the other has his neck on a swivel. I know this will
slow your work, but not as much as if the work had to wait for a new
investigating team from Emeraude--or from Earth.

"You've seen most of the dangerous animals in the zoo at Emeraude, so I
won't waste time describing them. Just remember that you won't always
hear them coming. You'll have to use your eyes.

"All right, Dr. Lampert. You're the boss, as far as the scientific work
goes. Who does what, and where?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The geophysicist gave no sign of having detected the humor in the
guide's remark, but began speaking at once.

"I should say that the main canyon upstream and the side one in the
same direction should be covered first. We've already used up a good
deal of today, and would waste more breaking out the boats. Ndomi and
I will go up the main stream; Hans and Take can take the other. Don't
hurry. If anything looks good, take the time to investigate it on the
spot. Of course, if it is obviously a major job, just mark it and go
on. There's no sense in one man's trying to exhume a six-foot lizard
skull.

"Since this region must have been sea when the limestone was deposited,
there's not much chance of land animals. However, we want as complete a
chronological series as possible, so do the best you can on this level.
We'll try for higher formations later. There should be plenty farther
upriver, if this block is tilted the way it seems to be.

"String, perhaps you'd better go with Take and Hans. Set out when
you're ready. Be back in--" he glanced automatically at the narrow
strip of purplish-blue sky, then at his watch--"four hours; then we'll
compare notes. After that we can either concentrate on one place or the
other, or break out the boats and cross the streams, as indicated."

Twenty minutes later the parties were out of sight of each other and
the helicopter. Lampert had spent the first few minutes of the walk
wondering whether he had been too obvious in arranging for both the
guide and Krendall to accompany the little archaeologist; but he
quickly convinced himself that McLaughlin's speech had covered the
arrangements pretty well.

In any case, he would probably have been distracted soon enough. The
cliffs were interesting. Limestone, evidently, as expected--but rather
dense, at that; maybe some barium replacing the calcium? or was the
gravity different enough to destroy his judgement for such a small
fragment? Probably not. He was actually using inertia more than weight
in making his estimate. Anyway, the stuff was certainly a carbonate. It
frothed satisfyingly under a drop of acid from Lampert's kit.

And there were fossils. Sulewayo's form was bent over a spot on the
cliff face, examining minutely; but Lampert could see others from where
he stood. None seemed remarkable. Most were rather evidently shellfish.
He carefully refrained from giving them names according to the genera
they resembled in Earth's rocks; Sulewayo and his colleagues frowned on
the practice, which could be most misleading. He could not, however,
resist the temptation to think of them as scallops.

"What do you have there, Ndomi?" He knew the other would not have spent
so long on any shellfish.

"Not sure, precisely. Maybe vertebrate, maybe not. What could be armor
and what could be ribs all mixed up. I think I'll mark it for future
reference."

"I suppose it'll be another Devonian whatsit, like everything else on
this planet, when you do decide."

"Pennsylvanian would better describe the world as a whole. Barring
that, you may be right. Rob, if you'd give me a hand here we could get
some basic work done."

"Eh?"

"You say this is a tilted block. In lowest formations right now. I'd
like to get photos and if possible specimens of as many different
varieties of shellfish as possible, at each level. Then it may be
possible to set up some sort of temporal sequence--and use the things
as index fossils if animals do evolve on this be-nighted mudball.
If you could get me some radioactive dates at two or three nicely
scattered levels, it would also help."

"Thanks," returned Lampert drily. "I could use material like that
myself. I can tell you what you probably already know--you're not
likely to get anything of the sort from limestone."

"Well--intrusions are always possible."

"You watch for 'em, then." The pair went to work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two hours out, a little more than one back. There was no one at the
helicopter when they reached it, but the other group came in only a
few minutes over the four-hour limit which Lampert had imposed. A
comparison of notes over the meal which had been quickly prepared
indicated that the second group had gone farther in point of miles
covered, but had accomplished less work. Krendall had had the same
idea as Sulewayo. But he had not attempted to carry it out since his
canyon did not cut across the range, and would presumably not furnish a
continuous change in formations.

Lampert and Sulewayo, as it happened, had not found any evidence of
change themselves. The last fossils they had found were at least
superficially identical with the first. There was the usual evidence
of bedding, and it had been quite evident geometrically that the walk
had taken them to originally higher, and presumably later, levels; but
in what must have been eight hundred feet or more of original deposit,
there seemed to have been no significant change in the fossil life.
What eight hundred feet would mean in point of time, of course, no one
had the least idea. There was not even a good guess as to how fast
carbonates might be expected to precipitate in a Viridian ocean. Anyone
could compute the carbonate ion equilibrium between atmosphere and sea,
but no one knew anything to speak of about carbonate-precipitating
organisms of the planet.

Mitsuitei changed the subject slightly at this point.

"We found several of the joints you predicted," he said to Lampert.

"Oh? Very wide? We didn't spot anything that was obviously a joint. But
there were several small side canyons--all narrow enough for us to wade
or jump their central streams--which might have started life that way."

"Ours were quite narrow, and bore traces of volcanic ash at the
bottoms."

"Eh?"

"That's right, Rob. Here's a bit of it I brought back. I thought you
might want a little corroboration on that one." Krendall handed over a
bit of crumbly tuff as he spoke. Lampert examined it with pursed lips.

"Maybe we'd better get back into the air, and search the neighborhood
for volcanoes," he said at last. "I can't bring myself to believe in
two full mountain-building cycles on this planet--and if I could, I'd
have a hard time swallowing the idea of these limestone layers coming
up, going down, and coming up again unaltered. How deep were these
volcanic deposits?"

"Variable. Shallowest in the wider joints; in the very narrow ones, up
out of sight."

"Suggesting that they've been washing out for some time since the
original settling. Anything organic in them?"

"Nothing turned up yet."

"Do they extend below the present river level, or what?"

"They're at least down to it. We couldn't do any major excavating."

"If they run much below," muttered Lampert, "I'll join the roster of
geophysicists who have been driven off the rails by this woozy world.
Well, let's assume as a working hypothesis that the volcanic activity
is relatively recent. That will at least have the advantage of keeping
me sane, until something comes up to disprove it." He finished his meal
in silence, while McLaughlin gave a reproving lecture on the matter of
wading.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was still a little daylight to go when all the men had eaten;
and Lampert, Sulewayo and the archaeologist took the helicopter up the
main canyon to check on the possibility of walking to any really new
deposits.

They were sure, from changes of color already seen at various levels
up the cliff face, that these existed. But it appeared that the lowest
of them did not reach river level for more than a dozen miles. The
distance was less mapwise, but the canyon, winding back and forth
around what the geophysicist still felt must be joint-bounded blocks,
went a good two miles in other directions for each one that it led
eastward. Realizing this, the explorers lifted the helicopter and began
checking as close to the cliffs as Lampert dared at higher levels.
In this way they worked back toward the camp site. Once again it was
Mitsuitei who first spotted something of major interest.

"Found another city, Take?" asked Sulewayo at the other's call.

"Not exactly. It's--well, I guess it's really a system of those joints
you keep talking about. Still, it looks awfully regular." He sounded a
little wistful.

"It does." The paleontologist nodded slowly. "As you say, it's probably
a joint system. Also, it's probably full of volcanic ash, if my eyes
don't deceive me. Rob, what's the chance of a landing on one of the
shelves? There are at least three formations accessible on foot from
that point; and I could get some more tuff samples to make or break
your peace of mind, while I was doing my own work."

Lampert examined the area carefully. Like Earth's Grand Canyon, this
one receded from time to time in shelves where softer layers of rock
had worn further back, or the orogenic processes had paused to give the
river a longer bite at that level. The cracks Mitsuitei had seen formed
a neat crisscross pattern on the top of one of the shelves. Some of
them betrayed their nature by emerging from its vertical face. It was
admittedly an unusually small-scale joint pattern, at least for this
mountain system, and might well contain readable evidence of the forces
which had shaped the area.

However, they had only one helicopter. Lampert slowly shook his head in
negation.

"I'm afraid not, Ndomi. Your shelves may be big enough, but they're not
level enough. I'd have to make a swinging landing, and I'm not that
good a pilot."

"Well, how about letting me down on the ladder? We have a hundred feet
of that, so you could be up above the next shelf while I went down.
You'd have plenty of blade clearance. That next level goes back a
couple of hundred feet."

"That might be all right." Lampert spoke hesitantly. "You certainly
have the right to risk your own neck on the climb if you want to. We
won't try it tonight, though. I'd like to check with String on the
advisability of your being there alone. The place looks pretty hard to
reach for anything that doesn't fly, and I don't know of any really
dangerous flying things on this world; but we'd still better check."

"All right with me. I'd just as soon have a full day, anyway."

"If Ndomi will be spending a day alone up here, how about having String
take me to the other place, and settle that point once and for all?"
asked Mitsuitei as the helicopter eased downward toward the camp. "That
would still leave Hans and you to form another team for whatever else
you want to do."

"That should be all right. It'll depend, though, on whether String
thinks it's safe for a man to work alone on that shelf."

The proposition was put to McLaughlin as soon as the machine was
landed. To Lampert's surprise, the guide gave a qualified approval.

"Remember," he concluded, "I don't know what lives on the cliffs. It's
country I've never covered. All I'm saying is that no Viridian animal
I know of could get there, except flying ones; and they're nothing
to worry about, especially in the day-time. I'd like to go with you
to look over the place when you take him up tomorrow, and strongly
recommend that he carry a communicator as well as a weapon; but unless
I see something you haven't mentioned when I do go, I would say it was
all right...."

Once more the Felodon reached the river, but this time it did not
cross. It was no longer heading straight for the helicopter. Hills
had not altered its course, but the cliffs had. They formed a wall on
its right which was too nearly vertical for its agility and strength.
Even this barrier, however, had caused no visible hesitation or doubt.
It had swerved, followed the base of the wall to the point where the
river emerged and plunged in as promptly as it had done before. Few
amphibians have ever lost the art of swimming when their larval gills
vanished; the feeble current meant nothing to the Felodon.

It turned upstream and went on its way.


                                  IV

Ndomi Sulewayo had pursued his occupation on terraces of Earth's
Grand Canyon, on cliffsides of Fomalhaut Four's highest range and in
badlands on the dimly lighted Antares Twelve. The physical hazards of
his present position troubled him little. McLaughlin had agreed that
the ledge where the paleontologist had been left was inaccessible to
the larger carnivores, and had merely issued a final warning about
poisonous "lizards." The primary danger, as nearly as Sulewayo could
see, was that something might happen to the helicopter. He certainly
could not rejoin the others on foot. He was facing a sheer wall some
sixty feet high. A score of yards behind him the terrace ended in
another straight drop of several hundred feet. A quarter of a mile on
either side, the flat surface ended; to the west, by narrowing until
the two walls became one; at the other end, it was cut off as far as he
was concerned by a joint penetrating apparently the full depth of the
canyon.

There were several other cracks in the wall facing him. Like those in
the tributary canyon explored by Krendall and Mitsuitei, these were
packed with volcanic detritus. This was hard to reconcile with the
suggestion that erosion had been long at work. In such a case, the
higher portions should have washed away long before the material found
at the canyon bottom.

Examination at close range suggested a possible explanation. The tuff
at this point was fairly well cemented. It seemed reasonable to suppose
that the joints had been present before the mountains had started to
rise; that a volcanic mud flow had filled them with detritus; that the
new material had then been cemented by dissolved material coming from
above. This would make the top levels of the tuff more resistant than
those lower down, where the cementing minerals had not reached, and
account for what had been seen so far.

The hypothesis also implied a plentiful supply of fossils. Volcanic
mud flowing into a crack in the ground should carry plenty with it.
Sulewayo set to work with a hammer, and was presently soaking with
perspiration.

He was tempted to remove some of his clothing; but this had been
treated chemically to repel Viridian insects and caution prevailed.
McLaughlin had not mentioned any dangerous biters or stingers, and
in all probability his blood would not be to the taste of any such
creatures on this world--but if the mosquito or tick did not learn that
fact until after it had tried, Sulewayo would hardly profit by it. In
any case the temptation to strip passed quickly. In only a few minutes,
his attention was fully occupied by his work; for the expected fossils
proved to be present in very satisfactory numbers.

Most seemed rather fragmentary. Apparently the original creatures had
been tumbled about rather badly before the medium hardened. However,
the remains were definitely bones, as he had expected and hoped. For
some time Sulewayo was occupied alternately digging out more fragments
and trying to fit the more hopeful-looking specimens together, although
he had no success at the latter job. Then evidence of a more complete
set of remains appeared, and he instantly slowed down to the incredibly
meticulous procedure which marks a paleontologist anywhere in the
universe.

At this time he had cut perhaps a foot into the tuff for the full
three-foot width of the crack and from terrace level up to about his
own height. In spite of its apparently firm texture, the rock was
extremely soft; and the old question about erosion was reappearing. Big
pockets of extremely crumbly material had been responsible for most of
his speed. Now, however, with the usual perversity of the inanimate,
a firmer substance was encountered, apparently encasing the bones he
suspected of existing a little farther on. This combined with his
increased care to bring almost to a halt the removal of rock from the
cleft.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bones were there. Perhaps they had been betrayed by a discoloration
of the rock too faint for him to have noticed consciously; perhaps
something more subtle is involved in the makeup of a successful field
worker in paleontology, but as flake after flake of the matrix fell
away under his attack a shape gradually took form.

At first a single bone which might have been an unusually short
digit or an unusually long carpal--or, of course, something totally
unrelated to either--was outlined. Then another, close enough to
suggest that their lifetime relationship might have been maintained.
And another--Sulewayo failed to hear the approach of the helicopter
until its rotor wash from a hundred feet above lifted the dust about
his ankles.

Knowing that Lampert would be having trouble holding that close to the
cliffside, the paleontologist reluctantly hooked his equipment to his
belt and started up the ladder. Five minutes later they were back in
the camp, with Krendall listening eagerly to Sulewayo's description of
his find.

"It's certainly a vertebrate, Hans. That stuff can't possibly be shell
or wood. It's almost certainly a land dweller--"

"Likely enough in that sort of rock, anyway."

"--because I got enough uncovered to be nearly certain that it's a
foot. Certainly a limb that would not be needed by a swimmer."

"Like an ichthyosaur?" queried Lampert innocently. Sulewayo grinned.

"Quite possibly. More likely one of our ubiquitous amphibids, though.
Certainly something worth getting out, since the general idea is to get
an evolutionary sequence of some sort."

"I suppose that means you'll want me to date the eruption which filled
all these cracks with detritus, then."

"Sure. But there's no hurry. Tomorrow will do." Lampert found he had no
answer to this, and Mitsuitei managed to edge into the discussion. He
had spent the day with McLaughlin, as he had hoped; and mere failure to
find paving stones had not damped his ardor.

"I suppose you and Hans will both want to go up the cliff tomorrow," he
remarked. "In that case, Rob might as well stay with String and me. It
will speed up the digging back at my hill."

"Are you still scraping dirt off that thing?" asked Sulewayo in mock
surprise. "Didn't one day indicate that it was a joint pattern like the
rest?"

"Not yet. We haven't gotten down to rock over any place where your
cracks should be. The root tangle of the taller trees slows the
digging. I admit the rock is limestone like the cliff, but there's
still no evidence why those trees grow so regularly."

"That's just what we've been saying all along; but you keep looking for
the remains of a city."

"I gathered, Ndomi, from your recent conversation that you were digging
for a land animal on the basis of three bones. Either you are working
on hunch, which destroys your right to criticize, or you are reasoning
from knowledge not available to the rest of us. In the latter case,
you should be at least open-minded enough to credit me with equivalent
knowledge in my own field."

It was Sulewayo's turn to have nothing to say; he had honestly supposed
that the archaeologist had been taking the "city" hypothesis no more
seriously than the rest. He apologized at once, and peace was restored.
Lampert sealed it by agreeing to Mitsuitei's suggestion.

The rest of the evening was spent in detail planning by the two
groups. At sunset, all turned in to sleep behind the protection of
the electrified fence. Even the guide regarded this as an adequate
safeguard.

       *       *       *       *       *

Apparently his opinion was shared by at least one other. The Felodon
had spent most of the day under water, part of the time in the canyon
fairly close to Lampert and Krendall and later down the stream by the
site where the guide and archaeologist had been working. At neither
place had it emerged, or shown the slightest sign of wanting to attack.
McLaughlin's reference to the strange instinct of the creatures seemed
justified. It certainly could not see the men, but just as certainly
was aware of their presence.

What it was about the alien visitors which exercised such an influence
on the minute brain of the carnivore, no one could have said--then. Any
watcher who had supposed, from its earlier actions, that it was moved
by a desire for new and different taste sensations would have had to
discard the notion now.

With the men safely settled down behind their fence, the beast suddenly
turned back downstream. It had returned to the camp site at the end of
the working day. In an hour it was in the jungle below the canyon; in
another it had killed, and was feeding as it had the moment before the
hum of the helicopter had first attracted its attention. This time it
finished the meal in peace; and once finished, did not show immediate
signs of its former obsession.

Instead it sought a lair and relaxed, blending so perfectly into the
undergrowth and remaining so silent that within a few minutes small
animals were passing only feet away from the concealed killer.

Robin Lampert was only a fair statistician, but if he had been
acquainted with the moves of that Felodon during the last few days,
even he would have been willing to take oath that more than chance was
involved. He would probably have wanted to dissect the animal in search
of whatever mechanism was controlling it.

But Robin Lampert knew nothing of the creature. Neither did Takehiko
Mitsuitei; and that was rather unfortunate, for the lair it had
selected was on the same hill as the archaeologist's digging site, and
a scant quarter mile away from the pit Mitsuitei had left.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rising of the green sun was not visible the next morning. The
ever-present mist had thickened into a solid layer of cloud, and
hissing rain cut the visibility to a few hundred yards. The helicopter
felt its way down to the hill with radar, landed on the river, taxied
on its floats to the bank and was moored. Lampert, McLaughlin and
Mitsuitei emerged, the scientists laden with apparatus, and started up
the hill toward the site. The guide carried only his weapons.

The equipment was not of the sort Mitsuitei was accustomed to using.
It actually belonged to Lampert. Normally it would not be used in an
archaeological dig, any more than it would have been had they been
fossil hunting; for neither activity takes kindly to any sort of
automatic digging machinery. Lampert had suggested its use, however,
in order to get a rapid idea of the nature of the soil cover, bed rock
and joint structure of the hill. If evidence warranted, it would be
abandoned for the slower methods of digging. If not, a few hours would
permit them to learn as much about the area as many days of work with
slower equipment.

The hole Mitsuitei had already dug was part way up the hill, in a space
cleared of underbrush by a flamethrower. Several other such clearings
were in the neighborhood. As the archaeologist had said, he had made
more than one attempt at digging which had been frustrated by roots.

Somewhat to Lampert's surprise, it was possible to tell even from
ground level the orientation of the taller trees which had been so
prominent from the air. Even the smaller plants showed signs of some
underground influence. Between the tallest trees, tracing out the
straight lines the men had seen from above, the underbrush formed an
almost impenetrable wall. Elsewhere foot travel was easy, though the
surface was by no means barren. Lampert understood how there might
indeed have been difficulty in digging on one of the fertile lines, and
admitted as much.

"That's the trouble," responded Mitsuitei. "I'd like to get down
right at such a point, to see what's underneath. It seems to me that
paving might be responsible, if they'd used the right materials. Lots
of civilizations have used organic substances which decay to good
fertilizer. Then there might be the remains of a sewage system, which
would account for richer soil--"

"After the time which must have passed since the place was buried?"

"It has happened. In such a case, of course, trace elements rather than
nitrates or phosphates are responsible. That's what I suspect here."

"But wouldn't it be better to dig where you actually have--in the
middle of a block, if that's what it is? Then you'd be fairly certain
to hit a building, which should be richer ground than a street."

"Only if you actually strike artifacts. The building itself might be
much less well preserved than a paved street. However, you are the one
who's handling that mechanical mole. Dig where you want, and see what
you can learn about this hilltop. Just get me at least a couple of
cores from my 'streets' before you're done, please."

Lampert nodded and proceeded to assemble his equipment. The "mole" was
a cylinder about five centimeters in diameter and three times as long.
A cutter-lined mouth occupied one end, while the other was attached
to a snaky appendage which was wound on a fair sized drum. A set of
control knobs and indicators were mounted near the center of the drum.

The geophysicist set the cylinder on the ground mouth downward, pushing
it into the soft earth far enough to assure its remaining upright. Then
he turned to his controls and after a moment, with very little noise,
the cylinder began to sink into the ground. In a few seconds it was out
of sight, trailing its snaky neck after it.

The men watched it in silence. Perhaps thirty seconds after it
disappeared, there was a minor convulsion in the neck, a momentarily
rising hum from the machinery, and a plug of dirt about two centimeters
in diameter and five long was ejected from a port in the center of the
drum. This was seized by Lampert and examined briefly, then tossed
aside. "The soil is pretty deep," he remarked.

"How far down did that come from?" asked Mitsuitei.

"One meter. That's the sampling interval I've set in it, for now. If
it meets anything much harder or easier to penetrate, it will warn me
and I'll grab them more frequently." Conversation lapsed while two
more samples arrived and were inspected. Then a light flickered on the
panel, and Lampert reset one of his knobs; and almost immediately a
core of light gray limestone was produced.

"Apparently the same stuff as the cliffs," said Lampert after examining
the specimen. "Do you want to go any deeper, or drill a few more holes
to get an idea of the contour?"

"How fast will that thing go through limestone?"

"A couple of centimeters per minute. It's too small to pack a real
power unit."

"Give it five minutes, just to make sure it isn't a building block."

"Ten centimeters wouldn't give you a whole building block."

"A sample from that far inside one would tell me what I want to know.
You rock-chippers don't seem to think that archaeology is a science
yet. Let me have that first core, too." Mitsuitei looked confident
to the point of being cocky, and Lampert let the mole burrow on. The
second core came in due time, and the little man set merrily to work
with tiny chips from the two stone cylinders, a pinch of the lowest
soil sample which had been acquired, a small comparison microscope and
a kit full of tiny reagent bottles. Lampert used the time the tests
consumed in reversing the mole and resetting the equipment on a new
spot. By the time the little mechanism had gnawed its way once more to
rock, Mitsuitei was forced to admit that the formation appeared to be
natural.

He did not seem as disheartened by the discovery as might have been
expected. He simply waited for more cores, his narrow face reflecting
nothing but the utter absorption Lampert knew he experienced whenever a
problem arose in his line. In spite of his apparent tendency to jump to
conclusions, Takehiko Mitsuitei was an experienced and respected member
of his profession. Lampert knew enough about his record to be perfectly
willing to accept his instructions for the present.

       *       *       *       *       *

A series of holes was drilled, from the original position toward one of
the "streets" forty yards away from it. After each the archaeologist
admitted with perfect cheerfulness that there was nothing inconsistent
with the idea that the hill was a perfectly natural formation. He still
insisted, however, that the regular lines of trees, reinforced as they
were by the undergrowth pattern, required explanation.

Lampert admitted this, but felt that he knew what the explanation would
be. After all, volcanic residue is more than likely to contain the
trace elements vegetation requires, even on Viridis.

Finally the time came to get verification--or the opposite. The
flamethrower had to be used this time, and for several minutes clouds
of steam swirled about the men as its blue-white tongue fought the
sappy, rain-soaked undergrowth. Then the mole and its controls were
wheeled into place, and the little robot once more nosed its way out of
sight.

"I don't suppose you want any samples above the regular rock level, do
you?" asked Lampert as the machine disappeared.

"I think it would be best if we took them as usual," was the reply.
"For one thing, we should try to learn the depth at which the soil
composition changes--we are at least agreed that it changes in some
manner, after all."

"True enough." The geophysicist set his controls, and the process
continued--a process familiar now to McLaughlin as well as the
scientists, for the guide had caught numerous glimpses of what was
going on while he prowled about the work area on self-imposed guard
duty.

Mitsuitei took the crumbly soil cores as they came, examined them
quickly--they were arriving every few seconds--and filed them in
numbered compartments in a specimen case he had opened. Detailed
stratigraphy would come later. For some time there was no gross
evidence of change in the soil; not, in fact, until his first case had
been filled.

"Can you stop that thing for a moment, Rob?" he asked at this point.
"I don't want to lose track of these, and will have to hold up while I
open a new case."

"All right. I thought you'd want to stop for thought soon anyway."

"Why?"

"Because the mole is nearly four meters down, well below the depth at
which we hit bedrock before, and is still in soil."

"Eh? But--but it's still ordinary soil; none of your volcanic ash."

"Tuff had been eroded out of a lot of the joints in the cliffs. There's
no reason to expect it to be at the same level as the surrounding rock."

"That's true." Mitsuitei paused in thought for a moment. "If we keep
on going straight down, we may just be working into a natural crack,
as you say. Might it not be better to drill several holes within a few
square yards here, to determine whether it is a narrow joint such as
you expect or an actual edge to the rock at this level?"

"Maybe the edge of a roof, eh?" Lampert chuckled, but spoke in a manner
which could give no offense. "I can do better than that. Don't need to
pull up and start over; simply drill horizontally from where we are
now. Shouldn't take long to get dimensions, if that's all you want."
He halted the robot momentarily, and from a compartment in the drum
removed something like a small theodolite mounting. This he set up
on a short tripod over the point where the neck of the mole emerged
from the ground, and set a pointer at right angles to the line of tall
trees. Then he started the digging again.


                                   V

Four starts in as many different directions and twenty minutes of
time showed fairly conclusively that the line of vegetation which had
given rise to the "street" theory was growing along a straight crack,
apparently a fairly ordinary joint, in the limestone. While several
more holes would have to be drilled to prove it, even Mitsuitei was
willing to admit that in all probability the remaining lines would be
found to be over similar cracks.

"You must admit, though, that the regularity of this joint pattern is
pretty unusual," the archaeologist said at length.

"It's far from being unknown," Lampert replied. "I got my first large
taste of it in my student days back on Earth. Fly over the mesa country
in southwestern North America sometime. Most of the joints there are
invisible from a distance, of course; but at the edge of a butte where
weathering is most prominent the blocks have frequently started to
separate, and the thing looks as though it had been put together from
outsize bricks."

"Hmph. Seem to remember something of the sort myself, now that you
mention it. I did some digging in that area, too. I shouldn't have
connected that sort of country with what we have here, though."

"Different meat; same skeleton," replied Lampert.

"But how about this volcanic ash, or mud, or whatever it is, which at
least fills the joints we saw in the cliff? That's not so usual, is it?"

"Not in my experience. But granting the joints and the volcanoes,
there's nothing really surprising about it. Incidentally, we don't know
that this crack we're standing on has the same filling. We'd better
bore down again to make sure. At least we may get some idea of the date
of the volcanic action compared to that of the orogeny that tilted
the block where we're camped. If there's tuff down here too, it will
substantiate the idea that the vulcanism is the older."

"Why? Couldn't ash have settled down here as well as up there at
substantially the same time?"

"It could. But I'd bet a fairly respectable sum that the tuff we saw
in the canyon was from a mud flow, not a fall of airborne ash. That
could hardly have reached the top of the cliffs--actually, the opposite
slope of the mountains, where Sulewayo is working--and this area
simultaneously."

"Maybe from different eruptions? I get the impression that this world
has a slight tendency to produce volcanic fields rather than individual
cones or flows."

"Might be. Chemistry will probably settle that question." During the
latter part of this discussion Lampert had directed the mole once more
downwards, and every half meter of travel another core was added to the
collection. At six and a half meters below the soil the first solid
specimen arrived; the others had been held together only by roots.
This one, however, caused the two scientists to look at each other.
Lampert nodded slowly, with a smile. Mitsuitei gave a shrug, and let an
expression of resignation play over his usually impassive features.

The core was tuff, apparently identical with that in the cliffs to the
east. It even contained fossils.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I guess this whole dig might as well be taken over by the paleontology
department," Lampert commented finally. "I suppose they'll at least
want to compare fossils in the tilted and level strata."

"I suppose so." Mitsuitei was turning the little cylinder over and over
in his hand. "Tell me, Rob, what's this little speck of green?"

"Copper salts of one sort or another, I suppose." Lampert was not
greatly interested. "A lot of secondary minerals form in and under
volcanic detritus. On this world, carbonates like malachite should form
quite readily."

"Why should it form in a regular thread like this?"

"You mean a vein? Hard to tell precisely. Varying rates of water
seepage, varying degrees of oxygen or carbon dioxide penetration,
varying degrees of compactness in the rock where the stuff is formed--"

"I don't mean a vein. This is in a cylindrical body going right through
the core from one side to the other, as though there had been a copper
wire there originally which had been attacked by soil acids."

"Let's see. You're right. It's hardly an ordinary vein, though your
suggestion seems a trifle far fetched. The paleontologists can probably
furnish an idea. Maybe a vine or even a worm buried in the mud flow
acted as the precipitating agent for copper salts in the subsequent
seepage--I've seen beautiful fossils of pyrite which had been formed
that way."

"But this shows no trace of structure, except for its exterior shape."

"Isn't a really well preserved structure the exception rather than the
rule in fossils?"

"I suppose so. Still, I'd like to know just how far, and which way,
this green thread goes. I'd also like to know whether there are dilute
copper deposits spread through this rock, which could be concentrated
in the way you suggest."

"The first could be learned by taking enough cores. The other would
call for some very careful analysis of samples which had been selected
with a very sedulous eye kept on the stratigraphy. You know that; you
must have done that sort of thing looking for carbon-fourteen samples,
at times."

"Yes, I see that. Could you make such analyses here?"

"No, except for the mere presence of copper. The cores would have to
go back to a well equipped lab. Still, if you want to get them, it's
all right with me. Problems were made to be solved. I'll admit this
one doesn't seem very exciting to me, but I can use your data after
you finish for work of my own. You should wind up with material for a
pretty complete geochemical picture of this neighborhood. Shall I get
the cores for you?"

"Yes, please."

"Silly question. All right." The mole was drawn up a short distance,
and sent questing downward once more at an angle to the original shaft,
branching off a short distance above the level from which the copper
deposit had come. Again and again the process was repeated, each time
at a slightly different bearing from the central hole; and Mitsuitei
examined each core for traces of green. At last he found it, piercing
the little cylinder of rock as the other had done; and then, at his
suggestion, Lampert reset the mole to get a sample in the opposite
direction from the one which had furnished the new specimen.

       *       *       *       *       *

This also checked positive; and four more samples, taken along the same
line at various distances, all did the same.

Apparently the line of green extended for some distance, about parallel
both to the surface of the ground and the trend of the joint in which
it was buried. Mitsuitei was radiant.

"I'm going down to that level if I have to come back with an expedition
of my own! If that's a fossil worm, it's worth getting the whole length
anyway--but I don't believe it is. I--"

"That will take a lot of time, you know," Lampert pointed out mildly.

"Certainly I know! Even if I use your fast excavator down to the tuff
level, I'll have to do detail work from then on. What of it?"

"Well, the others may have jobs they want to do--"

"Then they can do them! What are we here for, anyway? I thought it
was to investigate the past of this planet! Ndomi and Hans are doing
that their own way right now. Why can't I? I'm an archaeologist, and I
came along to do any archaeological work that presented itself to do;
this is the only thing of the sort anyone's seen so far. I know what
you're thinking. Maybe you're partly right. I certainly won't bet any
money that this thread of green is a fossil telephone wire; but it's as
likely to be that as anything else you've suggested, and I'm going down
to that level and sift the whole volume. Hans and Ndomi can have any
fossils I find if that will make you happier--and if one of them says
he has no use for fossils he didn't dig himself, I'll make him eat his
words. I can identify, locate and report on anything that turns up in a
rock as well as any of those jigsaw-puzzle people; and I can do it in
mud, too, which is more than any of them could manage."

"Don't get hot under the collar. If you can help it on this planet.
You sound as though one of the boys had been giving you a lecture on
the importance of knowing what strata a given series of specimens
represent."

"Not one of our boys--they have a little more sense. But there was
a young paleontologist when I was covering the Antares worlds whose
memory still makes my blood pressure go up. Never mind me; that's not
important. But I want to make this dig."

"It will tie up machines, however freely we can spare time," Lampert
said slowly. "I'll tell you: how about this? We spend the rest of
the day getting cores from other points along these cracks. For one
thing, we ought to know more about the structure of the hill, and for
another, we might find more of your 'wires.' After all, the chance of
our hitting the only one around is pretty remote. I can't quite see a
single dropped piece of copper wire showing up in the first two days of
a project like this."

"I neither said nor implied that this should be the only piece. I don't
doubt for a moment that there are others, whether they are wires or
worms."

"Sorry. Well, we take these cores back to camp this evening, together
with any others we find of the same sort, and let Hans and Ndomi
look them over. If they don't turn out to be something that the boys
recognize and can classify right off the bat, we come back tomorrow
with all the digging machinery you want, and dig until you either
find all you want, satisfy yourself that there's nothing here or find
something which obviously requires more specialized attention than we
can give it. All right?"

"Nothing could be fairer. Let's go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The discussion in camp that evening was animated beyond anything the
guide had heard. His original estimate of these men as relatively
quiet specimens underwent a sharp revision. Mitsuitei's report of
the day's activity at his site had, it is true, been delivered quite
calmly; but from then on matters grew progressively livelier. This was
not caused by opposition to the archaeologist's plans. The others were
all in favor of remaining, for their own reasons. However, the question
of just what was likely to be found gave rise to much rather barbed
comment on Sulewayo's part. "I don't see how you can expect to find any
trace of civilized work here," he said flatly at one point. "The animal
and plant life of this planet is at a stage of evolution corresponding
to something like Earth's Pennsylvanian age, when the amphibians were
the highest known forms of life. I'm not saying that there couldn't
be such a thing as an intelligent amphibian. But I do say that the
normal set of evolutionary forces which, on both Earth and Viridis,
produced creatures of the amphibian pattern could have done that _or_
produced an intelligent fish; not both. If the latter ever evolved, it
failed; for the amphibians--pardon me, amphibids--are here. To get an
intelligent amphibid on this world will--or would, if the sun were to
last long enough--require another orogenic period with the accompanying
climatic changes. Then you'd stand a considerably higher chance of
getting reptiles instead, if the comparative work done on over four
hundred planets carries any meaning."

"I don't doubt the value of the work at all. You are very probably
correct. It did not occur to me to expect remains of intelligent
amphibians. I saw no reason to pre-suppose that anything in the way
of artifacts which I might find would necessarily be native to this
planet."

"You think there were other visitors from outside the Beta Librae
system?"

"The possibility certainly exists. Here we are."

"But for Pete's sake! Do you really expect that they stayed long enough
to build a city, or do you think you have the remains of a camp like
ours, or what?"

"I don't think anything. It has been suggested that such people did
come, and stayed long enough to--"

"And you think you've found them."

"I think nothing, except that I have found, with Rob's help, something
which neither his professional knowledge, nor mine, nor even yours, is
able to explain; and I think an explanation is desirable. I hope you
won't consider me discourteous for pointing out that each time you have
tried to accuse me of jumping to conclusions, you have been able to
do so only by jumping to some yourself. I might further add that the
suggestion that this planet had been stocked with its present supply
of life types by visitors from space was advanced by a paleontologist,
not by one of my colleagues. I gather he could not understand how life
could evolve to the state it shows in the thirty-odd million years
that the planet seems to have been solid. I neither support nor deride
the idea; I simply want to gather data, in an attempt to explain a
much simpler question--why are narrow threads of copper compounds to
be found every few feet in the volcanic tuff filling the joints in
a certain limestone hill, and why are those threads always nearly
horizontal? You and Hans say they are not organic fossils, and I
accept your conclusion. Rob says that there is no copper in that rock,
detectable with his equipment, except within a few millimeters of the
green threads. I say nothing except that I have never seen such a thing
before. Under the circumstances, I fail to understand where you get
the idea that I think there is a city built by the people who stocked
this world thirty million years ago buried under that hill. I know I
said 'city' when I first saw it, and I still think I was justified in
the opinion; I have now seen evidence which causes me to admit that
the vegetation pattern was not caused by artificial structures, and
I dismiss the original hypothesis. I still want to dig there, and in
accordance with Rob's agreement I am going to dig there, with the
assistance of anyone who chooses to help. I know you want to go back to
your set of leg bones in the cliff, and have no objection to your doing
so. Even I can now see, on the basis of your description, that you are
uncovering the fossil of a land animal; and I agree that it is of great
importance to get it out intact, if possible. But if I can see the
importance and even the nature of your work, why can't you do the same
for mine?" The little man was leaning forward and staring intensely
into Sulewayo's face by the time he finished this harangue, and Ndomi
once more felt a trifle ashamed of himself. Lampert, however, saved him
the need of formulating an apology.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'm sure Ndomi didn't mean to ridicule your work in any way, Take,"
he said. "We all realize perfectly that an underground phenomenon
which cannot be explained at sight either by geology, paleontology or
archaeology is something which requires investigation. I imagine that
the best plan will be for String and me to go with you tomorrow, while
the others continue their stone-cutting. Hans, just how far along are
you, anyway?"

The older paleontologist thought for a moment.

"We don't really know," he said at last. "Of course, we aren't trying
to get the individual bones completely free of the matrix; that
will take somebody months or years. We're uncovering just enough to
determine the extent of the specimen, so we can take it all out in one
block--or more, of course, if it's too big. So far we can only guess at
how big it is. We've uncovered with certainty two feet, and gone about
half a meter along one of the attached legs. They seem to be extending
straight back into the cliff, so in effect we're cutting a tunnel
beside the thing. Assuming it had two main leg sections, as most of the
present animals on both Earth and Viridis appear to have, we're about
halfway between knee and hip joint. Of course, it might turn out to
be the Viridian equivalent of a horse or chicken. In that case, we're
about half way between ankle and knee. We certainly have several feet
yet to penetrate before we can outline the whole block, assuming that
the specimen is essentially complete. Several days, I would guess."

"Can you use any sort of power apparatus for any of your cuts?"

"I don't like to, on general principles, but--yes, we could, with
actually very little risk. If you have some sort of rock saw whose
cutting part can get fine control, I'd be willing to use it for parts
of the tunnel away from the actual specimen."

"I have. We'll take you up there first thing in the morning, and I'll
go down with you and show you how to use it before going on with Take
and String."

"Who holds the 'copter in place while you climb down the ladder, give
your lesson and come back?" asked the guide.

"Hmph. I forgot about that. All right, I'll break out the machinery and
give the lesson right now." He got up and strode to the helicopter.
McLaughlin covered him from the fence to the aircraft, but nothing
dangerous appeared. The geophysicist disappeared inside, and returned
a moment later with a compact metal case under his arm. The guide
holstered his weapon as the gate in the fence closed once more....

Actually, the Felodon was miles downstream. It had spent the day in its
chosen lair, apparently indifferent to the doings of the men a few
hundred yards away. With the coming of darkness--real darkness this
time, for the rain clouds cut off both the moonlight and the night
glow from the upper atmosphere--it had emerged, hunted, killed and fed
as before, apparently unhampered by the lack of light. By midnight it
was back in the same lair, paunch distended, as close to sleep as its
coldblooded kind ever came.


                                  VI

The rain was still falling when the clouds lightened once more to
the rising sun. Lampert was getting used to navigating the canyon by
radar, and was an excellent pilot anyway; so he did not have too much
trouble in locating the shelf where Sulewayo and Krendall had been
working. Getting the men down to it was not particularly difficult,
though rather nerve-racking. Krendall went first, unburdened except for
his personal equipment. Then he steadied the ladder for Sulewayo who
had the cutter strapped across his shoulders. The steadying hand was
needed. Climbing down a rope ladder when loaded "top-heavy" can be an
extremely awkward bit of activity. Had the pilot above been any less
capable, it would probably have been impossible.

The ledge was wet, but fortunately not particularly slippery. The men
set their equipment on the ground at the point where their cut entered
the crack in the cliff, and without delay set to work. The tunnel was
deep enough now to shelter the one actually cutting from the rain, so
at first they took turns at this operation.

The cutting machine Lampert had provided was a sort of diamond-toothed
chain saw capable of a two-meter extension. Ordinarily it was not the
sort of thing a paleontologist would consider using so close to a
specimen; but the men were fairly sure by now of the general extent
of the thing they were uncovering. Even so, they used the saw only on
the side of their tunnel away from the visible remains. They speedily
widened the passage enough to permit them both to get inside and work
on the face of the exposed material; but they still used hand tools
whenever there was any suspicion that a bone might be about to appear.
Work proceeded several times as fast as it had the day before.

They tried cutting another tunnel on the opposite side of the fossil,
but this proved rather awkward. The creature was close to this side of
the crack, and they had to cut limestone as well as the softer tuff.
The saw proved capable of handling this--it would have handled granite
without trouble--but went a little more slowly. Eventually, however,
the two men were working on opposite sides of the fossil, each in a
tunnel extending some two meters into the cliff face.

Half a day's work uncovered the leg bones sufficiently to show that
Krendall's first idea had been right. There were only the two major
joints, each a trifle shorter than the corresponding parts of the
human skeleton. The lower leg was single rather than double, however;
knee and ankle both consisted of ball-and-socket joints; and with this
fact determined the men paused for thought.

"Now why," mused Krendall aloud, "should any sort of creature need that
articulation?"

"Could that foot be a hand instead?" asked Sulewayo.

Of course, questions like that should have awaited the results of
detailed examination in a laboratory. Equally of course, the two men
proceeded to clear one of the "feet" a little more thoroughly in order
to find out for themselves. The answer was not helpful, though.

"He might have picked up a twig with it, but he couldn't have held it
any more tightly than I can in my toes," was Krendall's verdict. "It's
a bigger and flatter foot than ours. But it's a foot--nothing more."

"Maybe a swimming organ on the side?" suggested Sulewayo cautiously.

"Seems doubtful. If that joint evolved for such a purpose, I should
think there'd be a corresponding modification in the foot bones,
too--say a flattening such as you see in the paddles of some of the
Mesozoic sea reptiles of Earth."

"Reasonable."

"But not necessarily right. That I admit. Anything else strike you?"

"Yes, though it makes the joints still more unbelievable."

"What?"

"The foot itself. Unless some rather remarkable distortion has
occurred, it had both longitudinal and transverse arches, like yours
and mine--which suggests strongly that this thing's ancestors had
been walking erect on two legs for some hundreds of thousands of
generations." Krendall raised his eyebrows at this, and silently
examined the bony structure before them for several minutes.

"I--hadn't--spotted--that," he said slowly. He looked in silence for
several more seconds. Then the two men, moved by a single thought, went
to the other end of the exposed leg and began to clear the hip joint
and pelvic region. They worked almost in silence, understanding each
other perfectly, like an experienced surgical team; and gradually the
equivalent of a pelvic girdle and lower end of a spinal column were
cleared sufficiently to show their general nature.

It was at this point that the helicopter returned; but neither man
noticed the fact until McLaughlin had called several times from the
open ladder hatch. They climbed silently and thoughtfully up to the
flyer; but Mitsuitei's first question started the talk flowing.

It did not end for a long, long time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Krendall, with difficulty, held interruptions of his more volatile
companion.

"There can be only the slightest doubt that this thing we're uncovering
walked erect on two legs," he reported. "The feet; the way the
pelvis is modified to _support_ internal organs; the fusing of the
lowest vertebrae with the pelvic girdle to form a weight carrying
foundation--they all point the same way. The only thing hard to
understand is the knee and ankle joints. If we had them, it would be
virtually impossible for us to hold our legs rigid. Perhaps some really
remarkable musculature--"

"Or a cartilage structure which has not been preserved," cut in
Sulewayo.

"Or some such thing as that, would explain it. I don't know. The
creature is good for several Ph.D. theses just as it lies--and probably
an equal number of nervous collapses when we get it out."

"I find myself strongly desirous of seeing its skull," remarked
Lampert. Sulewayo glanced at him sharply.

"You, too?" asked the young paleontologist. "I was hoping I was the
only one crazy enough to have thought of that." Mitsuitei smiled
openly, an almost unheard-of act for him. He said nothing for a moment,
but everyone saw him; and even McLaughlin understood the thought. After
a sufficiently long pause, he asked a question.

"Have you uncovered enough of this creature's structure to guess at any
evolutionary connection--or lack of it--with the amphibids we already
know on this world?"

"I'd hate to take any oaths," replied Krendall. "The legs, which we've
seen most of, are different in detail; but they at least correspond in
general with what we find here. The only really significant point there
would be the single shin-bone. In that it resembles Viridian land life
in general--these animals don't have the separate tibia and fibula
characteristic of the usual run of Earthly land vertebrates. It really
proves nothing about what we're all thinking, of course."

"I am tempted to work with you gentlemen tomorrow," muttered the
archaeologist.

"Why? Didn't your investigation pan out?"

"It is harder for me to say than for you, so far. To dig a pit, big
enough not only to work in but to cover a useful amount of ground, in
a driving rain, is quite a job even with Rob's machines--which I would
never use were I not sure that there is nothing of importance above
the limestone level. I have gotten down to the rock over an area three
meters square, which is very good going; but I shall undoubtedly find
the pit full of water tomorrow, as we have not yet improvised a really
satisfactory drainage system. I cannot--or at least will not--use
machines inside the crack in the limestone; so it will be some time
before I get down to our mysterious green threads."

"Then it would seem that the best we can do is go on as we have,"
said Lampert. "The only change might be if one more man were to help
at Take's dig. But I don't suppose either Hans or Ndomi would care to
leave his own job at the moment, and actually there's not much more
to do at the hill which can be done by anyone but Take himself. I'll
continue to help him as long as it's a question of moving mud, but
after that he'll have to do his own sifting. String is automatically on
guard duty at the hill, so there's not much change we can make. Though
I must say I haven't seen anything dangerous yet, in that jungle."

"Those animals are like crows," remarked the guide. "We used to have
'em on the farm, back on Earth. They'd be all over a freshly planted
field, while no one was around. Come out yelling--they don't move;
come out with a gun, and they're gone--unless you'd happened to forget
to load it; then they sat and laughed at you. If you're suggesting,
Doctor, that I should relax the guard duty and lend a hand with
digging, I veto the idea--and not because I'm afraid of getting my
hands dirty."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I won't say I didn't have some such thought, but I accept your
ruling," smiled Lampert. There was silence for a moment; then Krendall
reverted to the earlier subject.

"You know," he said, "if this thing we've found does turn out to have
been intelligent, it will hardly solve any of the existing problems
about Viridis."

"Why not?" asked Sulewayo in some surprise.

"We still won't know whether it's native to the planet or not, unless
we can establish a relatively complete evolutionary sequence leading
to this form. If we do that, the question of speed of evolution here
gets worse than ever; if we don't no one will be sure whether or not we
ought to look for buried spaceports or send out expeditions to find
the planet they might have come from."

"The latter would be something of a waste of time," remarked
McLaughlin. "Hunting one planet in the galaxy is like hunting one
log of wood on Viridis." No one contradicted this. All had seen the
galactic star clouds from outside planetary atmosphere.

"It seems to me, speaking as an amateur in your fields, gentlemen,"
said Mitsuitei, "that the mere discovery of an intelligent creature
in the Viridian fossil deposits would, on the basis of our present
knowledge of the mechanisms of evolution, strongly support the idea
that this world was stocked from others. I realize that our knowledge
_may_ not be sufficient to justify us in that conclusion. But it is
_certainly_ not great enough to justify any other."

"You seem to have something there, Take," admitted Krendall. "If this
thing does turn out to have room for a brain in its skull, I suppose
the next ten conventions of the Interstellar Archaeological Society, or
whatever you call it, will be meeting at Emeraude."

"I shouldn't be at all surprised. So far, my profession and yours have
not overlapped, due to a considerable factor of difference in the time
spans covered. But it is just possible that we would be holding joint
meetings, in the event you describe."

"This meeting is changing from discussion to speculation," Lampert said
drily. "I would be the last to decry the value of imagination; but
actually we are as likely to face the need for entirely new hypotheses
as the result of our work here, as to find support for any now in
existence. I can speculate with the best of you, but for goodness sake
let's not take any speculation too seriously. I don't _really_ believe
that some big-headed descendants of Ndomi's fossil are listening in on
me right now!"

Even Sulewayo admitted that this was rather unlikely, and the
conversation turned to other matters until darkness fell.

No one had trouble sleeping. The loud drumming of the rain on the metal
roof meant nothing to field workers with their experience. If anything,
the sound was soothing, giving a perpetual reminder that there was a
roof. Such protection is not always available, in that line of work....

The Felodon seemed to have lost its traveling propensity. Once more it
went out into the utter darkness solely to get a meal. It accomplished
this as quickly as ever, though its eyes must have been useless and the
hiss and rumble of falling water drowned and buried any sounds which
would have been useful in tracking. Back in the same lair, full-fed, it
drowsed once more.


                                  VII

Mitsuitei had been almost right in his prediction that the pit would be
full of water. Only the fact that the land sloped a trifle--they were
not right on top of the little hill--had saved it. As it was, several
feet of water were in the bottom, and a good deal of mud had washed in
from the two sides facing the edges of the crack. The other two, much
better braced by deep-reaching roots, had held firm.

After some thought, Lampert used the little robot again. He started
it at the bottom of the pit on the downhill side and drove almost
horizontally toward the river. The two hundred meters of "neck"
permitted the mole to emerge from the slope farther down. When it was
withdrawn, a small drain hole was obtained. Several more of these were
drilled, and the pit lost its water fairly rapidly.

There was still the problem of getting into the crack itself, which
of course would involve digging below the level of the drain holes.
Lampert, using the same excavator which had made the pit itself,
finally provided a fair solution by digging a set of ditches around the
larger hole; and since the opening itself was quite well protected by
over-hanging trees, Mitsuitei had only drainage from the surrounding
soil to contend with.

Two hours after arriving, therefore, he had a relatively clear working
space. The bottom of the pit was limestone, exposed by the complete
removal of the overlying soil, some three meters square. Across it
ran the crack, a trifle less than a meter wide, still packed with
dirt. Everything was muddy--limestone, projecting roots, and Mitsuitei
himself. A slender log with branches cut to ten-centimeter stubs leaned
against one corner, forming a rough ladder and giving entrance and
egress to and from the site.

The machinery which had done the original digging was at one side.
Mitsuitei did not expect to need it again. He was now equipped with a
hand shovel, and seemed about to use it. Lampert, standing at the edge
of the pit, felt the incongruity, but managed not to laugh.

"Are you sure there's nothing I can do down there with you?" he asked.

"I'm afraid not. From now on I want every bit of dirt to pass under my
own eyes."

"Are you going to try to throw it all up here as you finish?"

"No. That's the purpose of the extra pit area down here. I can get a
long way down the joint, simply heaping the material on the rock. It's
damp enough to pile quite steeply, too."

"How far down do you think you can get? The crack's rather narrow to
work in, and you have three and a half meters to go before you hit
tuff. That's going to be rough shoveling. I still think you could use
the machine safely for a little way further, at least."

"No doubt I could, but I'm not going to. There's one thing I might use,
though. If you have another of those saws, such as the bonemen are
using up on the cliff, I could widen this crack as I go--cut steps, in
fact, to help get the mud up to this level when I'm further down."

"That's a good thought, but I don't have any other. If you really get
far enough down to need it, though, I could fly up to get it. They were
going to shift over to hand labor anyway."

"All right. Of course, it will be some time before I get that deep
anyway; maybe I won't need it today." He bent to his work.

"But what do I do?" asked Lampert. "I can't go off to attend to my own
projects, because String has to stay here to guard you. I can't get to
the site where the others are working because I can't land there. I
can't sit in the helicopter and twiddle my thumbs because I'll go crazy
before the day is over." Mitsuitei straightened once more, and thought
briefly.

"Is there nothing in the geophysical line you could do within sight of
this pit?" he asked finally. "The saw and digging machine are not the
only apparatus you brought."

"That's true. I brought some seismic gear, though I didn't plan to use
it quite like this. I might map the formations under this hill. The
information will be usable, I should think, and the joints will give
quite a calibrating job. It will keep me busy, anyway."

"Just a minute!" Mitsuitei looked a trifle perturbed. "Does that mean
you're going to set off explosives around here? I want the sides of
this pit held up by something better than roots, if you do."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lampert chuckled. "No explosives," he said. "This is a nice little
gadget with a robot like the core sampler. It puts out waves of any
type desired from any depth down to two hundred fifty meters--a sort of
subterranean sonar. You'll never know it's working. The wave amplitude
isn't enough to feel." He turned toward the helicopter on the river
bank below, and was starting to walk toward it when McLaughlin
interrupted. The guide had heard the conversation, and his question was
purely rhetorical.

"You weren't planning to walk down to the flyer alone, were you,
Doctor?"

"Well, yes, as a matter of fact. After all, I won't be working; I can
keep my eyes open as I go. You can see me for the greater part of the
journey from here, too."

Rather to his surprise the guide approved this argument, after a
moment's thought.

"All right. But please keep your gun in your hand as well as your head
on a swivel. I'd prefer to have Dr. Mitsuitei come down with us so we
could stay together, but I know how he'd react to the interruption, and
I realize you're not a kid. Just be careful."

Lampert promised; and the guide's manner had impressed him to the point
where he was almost afraid to make the return journey, after reaching
the flyer and packing his new equipment. He was rather surprised to get
back to the site without being attacked, and McLaughlin's very evident
relief at seeing him did nothing to ease his feelings.

He began to set up the machinery. This consisted of an assembly very
similar to the drilling mole--a small delving robot drawing a slender
tail behind it, the tail wound on a drum which surrounded the control
unit. A dozen smaller cylinders reposed in attached clips.

"The attached borer," Lampert explained to the guide, "goes down
to any depth I set, up to two hundred fifty meters. It can produce
any of the three normal types of earthquake wave, singly or in any
combination, with sufficient intensity to be detected at a range of
over two kilometers in reasonably well-conducting rock. The small
cylinders are detectors, equipped not only to receive and analyze the
wave coming through the ground but to measure electronically their
location with respect to each other and the main station. I can use as
many of them as I please, up to the full dozen; but they can be planted
only a little way below the surface. There exists equipment for getting
readings at depths comparable to that of the transmitter, but I don't
have it. As it stands, by spotting the receivers carefully I can get a
pretty good picture of the formations for a radius of a kilometer and a
depth even greater with ten minutes measuring--and ten hours computing."

"How far out do you plan to place these receivers?" the guide asked
pointedly.

"Well--I hadn't made a detailed plan of that. I'd rather like to have
them in radiating lines of three, the lines spreading about fifteen
degrees, and the individual cylinders about two hundred meters apart."

"And just how were you going to place them? I gather that someone has
to walk the best part of four kilometers--or do these things fly, in
addition to their other abilities?"

"Er--someone walks. I thought perhaps, since you don't like the idea
of my going alone through the jungle, that I might stand guard over
Take in the pit while you set them out."

"Hmm." The guide did not explode, to Lampert's relief. It had not
occurred to the scientist that the job of wandering around a hole in
the ground waiting for animals which never came might get a little
boring to a man of McLaughlin's background. "Let's go over first
and see how Dr. Mitsuitei is getting along. I guess you could stand
over him with a gun for half an hour. Of course, the cover runs
dangerously close to the pit. Maybe we'd better burn it off to a
safer distance--still, I guess that won't be necessary. You can stand
out here where it's relatively clear, and see all the approaches to
the pit. Something might jump in without your having time to hit it,
and you'd at least see it and could get there fast enough to do any
shooting necessary."

They approached the hole and looked in. Mitsuitei was working busily.
A fair quantity of earth lay spread on the rock, and some two thirds
of the length of the crack had been excavated to a depth of perhaps
a quarter of a meter. The geophysicist attracted the little man's
attention and told him of the plan; Mitsuitei nodded and bent once more
to his work.

The Felodon was becoming restless. It could hardly be hungry as yet;
but it was on its feet, snarling silently as it had when the helicopter
first entered its ken. For perhaps a minute it stood; then, with
the same air of determination it had shown days before and scores of
kilometers away, it began to thread its way through the underbrush
toward the river--and the digging site.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'll stand where you suggested, and never take my eyes off the pit,"
Lampert promised.

"Then I'll come back to find you missing," replied the guide. "You're
guarding yourself too, remember. Don't keep your eyes on anything. Keep
them moving."

He finished distributing the little cylinders in the various pockets
of his outer clothing, and moved off in the direction Lampert had
indicated. He looked back frequently, but each time saw the scientist
alert. When the underbrush finally cut off the view, he refused to
worry too much.

Actually, McLaughlin had gone to considerable pains to make the jungles
of Viridis sound more dangerous than they really are. His conscious
motive was to make the inexperienced members of the party alert enough
for their own safety. It was quite true that a man could be killed in
quite a variety of ways in those rain forests. There was a distinct
possibility, however, that he also wanted to impress them with the
importance of his services.

He did not, therefore, suffer much from anxiety during his walk, though
on the other hand he wasted no time. He had, of course, only a rough
idea of the distance he had traveled, though he was able to keep his
direction with a small impulse-compass tuned to the seismic apparatus
and forming part of its regular equipment.

He dropped three of the cylinders at the required intervals, as nearly
as he could guess, forcing each a little way into the ground as Lampert
had shown him; then he turned at right angles, walked what he hoped was
the right distance and started back toward the site, planting equipment
as he went. Out again, in again; and the last of the dozen tubes was in
the ground.

Mitsuitei's shovel scraped deeper.

Lampert, glancing up and around every few seconds, made minute
adjustments to the controls of his seismic apparatus. Its little mole
robot had started on its downward trip.

The Felodon lurked thirty yards from the point where Lampert was
standing, protected from his sight by the undergrowth and by one of the
piles of dirt thrown up by the machine which had dug the pit. It seemed
to be looking through the soil at the spot where the man was. The snarl
was still on its face, but no muscle moved in its long body. It had
been there for minutes without moving; it had frozen similarly when
McLaughlin had passed it on his way out. Now it simply stood and waited.

On a cliffside kilometers away, Ndomi Sulewayo gave utterance to the
first profanity Krendall had ever heard him use. They were on opposite
sides of the block containing the fossil, so neither could see the
other. Krendall, naturally, asked what was wrong.

"Don't tell me a bug got through one of these suits!"

"Worse, if possible. I told you this foreleg--" both had been carefully
avoiding the use of such words as "arms"--"was sticking out sideways,
so that I was afraid we might have cut off part of it in digging the
tunnel."

Krendall nodded. "I remember. Did we?"

"I don't know."

"Eh? How come? I should think there'd be no doubt, one way or the
other, if you have that much of the limb clear."

"Well, I haven't. I got as far as the bone goes--and right there I run
out of tuff and into the limestone. If there's anything more, it's in
an entirely different kind of rock, which is a trifle unlikely; but I'm
going to have to check the blocks we cut from this part of the tunnel
in order to make sure, and I don't look forward to the job at all."
Krendall, properly sympathetic, came around to Sulewayo's side to look,
and agreed that the search was necessary. The bone the younger man had
been clearing ended in a joint of the type they had come to regard as
typical of the creature's limbs; and this had occurred almost exactly
at the surface they had left when first outlining the block with the
saw.

Sulewayo, with a grunt of disgust, dropped his tools and went out into
the rain, where the blocks cut from the cliff had been piled; Krendall,
nobly sacrificing his personal inclinations, went along with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The search lasted for a long time; for a long time, in fact, after it
became evident that it was going to be useless, for the chance of a
perfect specimen is not easily thrown away. Finally, however, Krendall
straightened up with a sigh.

"I guess we'll have to be satisfied with a restoration on one side," he
said wearily. "I hope someone fifty years from now doesn't find another
and discover that it's a sort of vertebrate fiddler crab, with one
fore-limb ending in a paw or claw something like five times the size of
the one on the other."

Sulewayo gave a gloomy assent, and the two went back to work in their
respective tunnels.

Lampert saw McLaughlin the instant the underbrush made it possible, a
fact which the guide later admitted was to the scientist's credit. He
had, of course, been eagerly awaiting that return, for the transmitter
was down to its first set depth and awaiting only the word that all
receivers were in place. He called eagerly the moment the guide came
within earshot.

"Everything down?" McLaughlin nodded.

"Everything down, as nearly as I could tell the way you said. How long
will the readings take?"

"Only a few minutes. I'll take a couple of calibration shots from ten,
fifteen and twenty meters' depth; then ones at fifty, a hundred and so
on down as far as the mole will go. The shooting takes practically no
time. It's the drilling that will hold us up."

"What then?"

"Well," Lampert smiled, "after that the usual procedure is to pick up
the receivers and place them in a similar pattern in a new direction.
If the field crew doesn't go on strike, we take the whole circle about
the transmitter."

"I was afraid of that," grunted McLaughlin, as he stopped by the
machine. "Well, let's go." The two men bent over the controls in a
silence broken only by the scraping of Mitsuitei's shovel a dozen
meters away. Lampert pressed his shot button, and a light on the panel
flashed white momentarily. Below their feet, unfelt, the pulse of sound
energy raced outward, echoing from the walls of deepstriking joints,
from the boundaries between rocks of differing densities or elastic
constants, from the walls of caverns deep in the limestone; some tiny
portion of the energy from time to time encountering and affecting one
of the tiny receivers McLaughlin had buried.

As each receiver gathered its bit of data, it retransmitted the
information to the master unit; and everything was recorded on a
single sheet as the milliseconds sped by. Long before a full second
had passed, the first of the pulses had damped out as heat energy,
and enough had been transmitted for the machine to obtain an adequate
averaging record. The light blinked out again. Lampert nodded in
satisfaction, and sent the mole downward once more.

"Look, good. Now the next set," he remarked.

       *       *       *       *       *

As that pulse of seismic energy went forth, the Felodon rose to its
full height, almost showing itself over the pile of dirt which was now
its sole protection from the view of the men. The snarl on its face
seemed to grow fiercer, if that were possible. For just an instant it
seemed torn by conflicting desires. But that was for just an instant;
any tendency to flee was smothered before it could take full form.
There were two men now to worry about, and correspondingly less chance
for the opportunity it had been awaiting. But the opportunity came. For
just a moment the guide looked down at the panel which was absorbing
Lampert's full attention. In that moment a green-and-lavender streak
flowed over the heap of soil in a single leap and vanished into the
pit. It must have been timed and guided by the mysterious sense
McLaughlin had mentioned. It could see none of the men when it leaped,
yet it timed the act for the moment none were looking, and landed
directly on Mitsuitei.

The little archaeologist never knew what hit him. He died without
a sound, and the killer, as though nothing lived anywhere in the
neighborhood, settled down to its meal.

In this it must have been disappointed. The chemicals in the clothing
designed to repel Viridian insects were equally obnoxious to the
carnivore, and it made no serious attempt to get through them. However,
not all of the body was protected in this way....

A second pulse went from the buried transmitter, and then a third,
each from a point a few meters deeper than the last. Lampert's
attention, of course, was centered on his controls. McLaughlin's eyes
were once more sweeping restlessly over the surrounding landscape. Both
heard the sounds coming from the pit, but neither interpreted them
as anything more than the scraping of Mitsuitei's shovel. Neither,
of course, considered them consciously. Their attention was finally
attracted by something decidedly more noticeable.

The Felodon did not--or could not?--remain at its meal for more than a
few moments. Its apparent indifference to the other men changed once
more to what seemed like an internal struggle. An observer would have
been sure, up to now, that it was using its peculiar sense to avoid the
sight of men with guns; but that hypothesis failed now.

As Lampert started the mole robot downward once more, the Felodon
leaped out of the pit toward the two men--regardless of the fact that
McLaughlin was facing toward it.


                                 VIII

McLaughlin saw the fanged head emerge, and his reflexes took over
instantly. A streak of flame passed beside the leaping carnivore,
exploding into a white-hot blossom of blazing gas as it contacted the
pile of dirt on the far side of the pit. The guide ducked and rolled
frantically sideward as another spring carried the creature toward
him. Claws raked the air past his shoulder, and he fired again before
the roll was complete and without any sort of aim.

Men and beast alike were spattered with white-hot droplets of metal
from the seismic recorder as the second shot caught it squarely; and
this seemed to be enough for the carnivore. Its next leap was away
from the men instead of toward them. A geyser of steam and mud erupted
beside it as Lampert finally got his weapon into action, and before the
vapor had been beaten down once more by the rain the animal was out
of sight behind the undergrowth. Both men sent several shots in the
direction of the crackling bushes, but accomplished nothing except the
felling of a tree or two and the starting of a bonfire which failed to
make any headway against the rain.

Convinced that the Felodon had gone, the men ran to the pit. Lampert
did not even take time out to glance at the wreckage of his equipment.
There was just enough distance to cover to let each one realize that
he had no idea how long the carnivore had been inside, and what the
"scraping" sound might have been. Both slowed down as they approached
the edge, not relishing what they expected to see. But this did not
prove to be what they had expected. McLaughlin's face, already grim,
turned gray as he saw that his first shot had not merely missed the
animal at which it was aimed.

The bolt had struck the pile of dirt which had been left by the
digging machinery at the far lip of the pit, and scattered most of
it to the four winds. Perhaps half a ton had slid back into the hole
from which it had originally been removed. There was no telling, from
above, what the Felodon had done to Mitsuitei. The upper half of the
archaeologist's body was buried completely, and the rest so liberally
sprinkled with dirt that it was not at once identifiable.

The guide, using language strange even to the widely-traveled Lampert,
leaped the three meters downward without bothering to use the ladder,
seized a projecting leg and tried to draw the little man clear of the
soil. Lampert, equally aware of the possible value of time but feeling
that he would do little good with a broken leg, made the descent in the
normal manner.

By the time he reached the bottom, McLaughlin had succeeded in dragging
Mitsuitei almost completely clear. Lampert started forward to clear
the mud from the still hidden face; then he stopped, and his stomach
abruptly heaved, as he realized that the face was not hidden.

It was gone.

Mitsuitei had removed the head-gear and gloves from his protective
suit for the normal reason--to see and manipulate better. The exposed
head and hands had formed the Felodon's hasty meal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The paleontologists saw the helicopter approaching this time, for they
were working outside the tunnel. Between them on the ledge lay a block
of stone some five feet long, two high and four wide--over two tons
of material, all told, which had been worked out of the hole rather
ingeniously by the men. Partial undercuts had been made, rollers worked
out of stone by the cutter placed underneath, and the undercutting
completed along a plane which sloped slightly upward into the tunnel.
Of course the block had run off the rollers once it was out in the
open, and the men could no more shift it another centimeter than they
could return to Emeraude without the helicopter; but at least it was
more or less accessible by air. They were chipping waste rock from the
corners when the flyer appeared.

Sulewayo was first up the ladder, unburdened this time. They expected
to have further use for the cutter. He noted that Lampert was alone in
the machine, and promptly asked the question the geophysicist had been
dreading.

"Where's Take? We've found something for him!"

"I'm afraid he won't appreciate it. He was killed a couple of hours ago
by a Felodon." The news silenced even Sulewayo, and the expression on
his junior's face actually startled Krendall when he climbed through
the hatch.

"Ndomi! What in--" Lampert cut in with the same news he had given a
moment before. Krendall reacted similarly; then slowly lowered himself
into a seat.

He did not ask for details. Both men could see that this was not the
time to put such a question to the pilot, though neither realized
then the personal responsibility that Lampert felt over the incident.
Krendall pulled a small fragment of tuff from his pocket, and looked at
it thoughtfully.

Nothing further was said until the helicopter landed once more on the
river near the "city." McLaughlin and the bundle which held what was
left of Takehiko Mitsuitei were waiting on the bank, and were loaded
aboard without a sound.

"It's early. Well take him back to Emeraude tonight, and come back for
your work tomorrow," Lampert said, and lifted into the air without
waiting for agreement.

"All right," replied Krendall, "as long as we come back. I don't think
he'd have wanted us to stop. I'm going to find out about those green
threads of his, too." Lampert nodded in approval. He had already formed
a similar determination. For half an hour they flew on in silence.

The Felodon, half submerged in swamp water a kilometer downstream
from the hill, heard the helicopter hum overhead. It seemed totally
disinterested. For just a moment its fanged head pointed upward, then
settled back again. There was a burn under its jaw, which had been
inflicted by metal spraying from the ruined seismic apparatus. It was
more comfortable to keep it under water....

"What was it you found, Ndomi, that you thought Take would want to
see?" Lampert broke the long silence.

"It was when we were undercutting to get the block out of the tunnel,"
Sulewayo answered. "It's just some more of his green threads, in
the tuff below the fossil. I brought a chunk of the rock showing
them--here." Lampert nodded without taking his main attention from
flying.

"Maybe that fossil of yours was intelligent after all, then," he said.
"It seems to have died under very similar circumstances to Take--just
above a set of those green threads. Maybe it was a member of a party
like ours."

"Maybe. It certainly walked erect. The whole body structure shows that.
If its brain were large enough and it had some sort of manipulating
appendage I'd say it was virtually human--in capacity, that is. It was
more of an amphibian anatomically."

"You have the block out in the open. Haven't you been able to study the
head and limbs?"

"No, damn it." Krendall took over from his junior. "That was the big
disappointment of the whole find. The specimen seems to be perfect
except for missing skull and hands. Not a trace of either."

The helicopter wavered slightly in its path, then steadied as Lampert
forced his attention back to his job. No one said anything for a long
time, but everyone was thinking.

       *       *       *       *       *

Someone else was thinking too, but wasn't keeping his thoughts to
himself. They were being spoken, and virtually dripped with the
thinker's fury.

"You sloppy, lazy parasites! I don't mind being stuck with a job and
a deadline, even if it's a report that's due in only fifty years and
needs about two hundred for a real conclusion. I'd sooner do it all
myself than have some of you loose thinkers butting in! But if I'm to
give my whole attention to it so I can produce something that won't be
laughed at from here to the Magellanic Clouds, how about some of you
watching what goes on on this planet? I didn't know those creatures
were poking around until they began cutting sensor lines! Thirty, the
protective life we've bred on the surface was your idea; why didn't you
put it to work?"

The answering words tried to be soothing.

"Thirty was working--"

"Dreaming, you mean!"

"But I put one of the guardians on the job for him; it stopped the
digging, didn't it?"

"Sure, after a lot of damage had been done. Do _you_ want to come out
in the open and repair my wiring--with those space travelers poking
around? If they find you at it, the Council won't just laugh at us;
they'll excommunicate us and let this new species of intelligence clean
us out. Why did it take so long for the guardian to do anything?"

"Well, I--"

"Well, you were dreaming too, weren't you. Blast it, you're here to do
constructive thinking, not just to entertain yourself. Haven't you any
self-respect? They actually dug out Sixteen!"

"What difference will that make? He's been dead too long to mind it
himself, and anyway his brain and sensor connections were decently
burned."

"But they wouldn't have had to dig much deeper to get someone who's
_not_ dead, would they, Ninety-Five, my young friend? I suppose when
they cut one or two of _your_ sensors you decided it was time to do
something. Don't interrupt! I'm talking! This planet is supposed to
be a quiet place where people can expect to spend a decent number of
centuries at a time thinking, _without_ being disturbed. If you're too
young or too lazy or just too stupid to do any real thinking yourself,
at least you can devote a little time from your casual amusements to
making sure that other people _can_. Shut up! You'll do some thinking
now or find yourself in real trouble! Here's a problem for you to
solve, and see that you solve it!

"You will get my sensors repaired, making sure not only that you're not
caught at the job by these space travelers but also that they don't
realize it's been done. In other words, don't just neatly fill in the
hole they made after you've finished, so they can't help knowing
they're not the only intelligences on this world. I don't know when
they'll be back any better than you do, so you'll have to guess at
your own time limit. You can booby-trap your canyon with landslides or
anything else to keep yourself from being dug out, but if you fail in
either problem and either of us looks likely to be found I personally
guarantee you'll be found in the same shape as Sixteen. Now get to
work, and let me think. If you think you can get help or sympathy from
anyone else on the planet, good luck to you."

A wave of agreement spread along the countless miles of sensor wiring
that extended through Viridis' crust, but Twenty-Five didn't feel or
hear it. He had already taken the myriad of tendrils that terminated
his arms away from the mosaic console that formed the end of the vast
bundles of greenish threads coming through the walls of his cave, and
had settled back in his lounging chair. That report--only fifty years
to have it thought out--his full attention went back to it.


The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Soul Eaters, by William Conover

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Soul Eaters

Author: William Conover

Release Date: September 8, 2020 [EBook #63150]

Language: English




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE SOUL EATERS

                          By WILLIAM CONOVER

             Firebrand Dennis Brooke had one final chance
             to redeem himself by capturing Koerber whose
              ships were the scourge of the Void. But his
                luck had run its course, and now he was
             marooned on a rogue planet--fighting to save
             himself from a menace weapons could not kill.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"_And so, my dear_," Dennis detected a faint irony in the phrase, "_I'm
afraid I can offer no competition to the beauties of five planets--or
is it six? With regret I bow myself out, and knowing me as you do,
you'll understand the futility of trying to convince me again. Anyway,
there will be no temptation, for I'm sailing on a new assignment I've
accepted. I did love you.... Good-by._"

Dennis Brooke had lost count of the times he'd read Marla's last
letter, but every time he came to these final, poignant lines, they
never failed to conjure a vision of her tawny loveliness, slender as
the palms of Venus, and of the blue ecstasy of her eyes, wide with a
perpetual wonder--limpid as a child's.

The barbaric rhythms of the _Congahua_, were a background of annoyance
in Dennis' mind; he frowned slightly as the maneuvers of the Mercurian
dancer, who writhed among the guests of the notorious pleasure palace,
began to leave no doubt as to her intentions. The girl was beautiful,
in a sultry, almost incandescent sort of way, but her open promise left
him cold. He wanted solitude, somewhere to coordinate his thoughts
in silence and salvage something out of the wreck of his heart, not
to speak of his career. But Venus, in the throes of a gigantic boom
upon the discovery of radio-active fields, could offer only one
solitude--the fatal one of her swamps and virgin forests.

Dennis Brooke was thirty, the time when youth no longer seems unending.
When the minor adventures of the heart begin to pall. If the loss of
Marla left an aching void that all the women of five planets could not
fill, the loss of Space, was quite as deadly. For he had been grounded.
True, Koerber's escape from the I.S.P. net had not quite been his
fault; but had he not been enjoying the joys of a voluptuous Jovian
Chamber, in Venus' fabulous Inter-planetary Palace, he would have been
ready for duty to complete the last link in the net of I.S.P. cruisers
that almost surrounded the space pirate.

A night in the Jovian Chamber, was to be emperor for one night. Every
dream of a man's desire was marvelously induced through the skilful use
of hypnotics; the rarest viands and most delectable drinks appeared as
if by magic; the unearthly peace of an Olympus descended on a man's
soul, and beauty ... beauty such as men dreamed of was a warm reality
under the ineffable illumination of the Chamber.

It cost a young fortune. But to pleasure mad, boom-ridden Venus, a
fortune was a bagatelle. Only it had cost Dennis Brooke far more than a
sheaf of credits--it had cost him the severe rebuff of the I.S.P., and
most of his heart in Marla.

Dennis sighed, he tilted his red, curly head and drank deeply of the
insidious _Verbena_, fragrant as a mint garden, in the tall frosty
glass of Martian _Bacca-glas_, and as he did so, his brilliant hazel
eyes found themselves gazing into the unwinking, violet stare of a
young Martian at the next table. There was a smouldering hatred in
those eyes, and something else ... envy, perhaps, or was it jealousy?
Dennis couldn't tell. But his senses became instantly alert. Danger
brought a faint vibration which his superbly trained faculties could
instantly denote.

His steady, bronzed hand lowered the drink, and his eyes narrowed
slightly. Absorbed in trying to puzzle the sudden enmity of this
Martian stranger, he was unaware of the Mercurian Dancer. The latter
had edged closer, whirling in prismatic flashes from the myriad
semi-precious stones that studded her brief gauze skirt. And now, in
a final bid for the spacer's favor she flung herself in his lap and
tilted back invitingly.

Some of the guests laughed, others stared in plain envy at the
handsome, red-haired spacer, but from the table across, came the
tinkling sound of a fragile glass being crushed in a powerful hand,
and a muffled Martian curse. Without warning, the Martian was on his
feet with the speed of an Hellacorium, the table went crashing to one
side as he leaped with deadly intent on the sprawled figure of Dennis
Brooke. A high-pitched scream brought instant silence as a Terran girl
cried out. Then the Martian's hand reached out hungrily. But Dennis was
not there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaping to one side, impervious to the fall of the dancer, he avoided
the murderous rush of the Martian youth, then he wheeled swiftly and
planted a sledge-hammer blow in that most vulnerable spot of all
Martians, the spot just below their narrow, wasp-like waist, and as the
Martian half-doubled over, he lefted him with a short jab to the chin
that staggered and all but dropped him.

The Martian's violet eyes were black with fury now. He staggered back
and sucked in air, his face contorted with excruciating pain. But he
was not through. His powerful right shot like a blast straight for
Dennis' chest, striking like a piston just below the heart. Dennis took
it, flat-footed, without flinching; then he let his right ride over
with all the force at his command. It caught the Martian on the jaw and
spun him like a top, the pale, imperious face went crimson as he slowly
sagged to his knees and rolled to the impeccable mosaics of the floor.

Dennis, breathing heavily, stood over him until the international
police arrived, and then he had the surprise of his life. Upon search,
the police found a tiny, but fatal silvery tube holstered under his
left arm-pit--an atomic-disintegrator, forbidden throughout the
interplanetary League. Only major criminals and space pirates still
without the law were known to possess them.

"Looks like your brawl has turned out to be a piece of fool's luck,
Brooke!" The Police Lieutenant favored Dennis with a wry smile. "If
I'm not mistaken this chap's a member of Bren Koerber's pirate crew.
Who else could afford to risk his neck at the International, and have
in his possession a disintegrator? Pity we have no complete records
on that devil's crew! Anyway, we'll radio the I.S.P., perhaps they
have details on this dandy!" He eyed admiringly the priceless Martian
embroideries on the unconscious Martian's tunic, the costly border of
red, ocelandian fur, and the magnificent black _acerine_ on his finger.

Dennis Brooke shrugged his shoulders, shoulders that would have put to
shame the Athenian statues of another age. A faint, bitter smile curved
his generous mouth. "I'm grounded, Gillian, it'd take the capture of
Koerber himself to set me right with the I.S.P. again--you don't know
Bertram! To him an infraction of rules is a major crime. Damn Venus!"
He reached for his glass of _Verbena_ but the table had turned over
during the struggle, and the glass was a shattered mass of gleaming
_Bacca-glas_ shards. He laughed shortly as he became conscious of the
venomous stare of the Mercurian Dancer, of the excited voices of the
guests and the emphatic disapproval of the Venusian proprietor who
was shocked at having a brawl in his ultra-expensive, ultra-exclusive
Palace.

"Better come to Headquarters with me, Dennis," the lieutenant said
gently. "We'll say you captured him, and if he's Koerber's, the
credit's yours. A trip to Terra's what you need, Venus for you is a
hoodoo!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The stern, white haired I.S.P. Commander behind the immense Aluminil
desk, frowned slightly as Dennis Brooke entered. He eyed the six foot
four frame of the Captain before him with a mixture of feelings, as
if uncertain how to begin. Finally, he sighed as if, having come to a
decision, he were forcing himself to speak:

"Sit down, Dennis. I've sent for you, despite your grounding, for
two reasons. The first one you already know--your capture of one of
Koerber's henchmen--has given us a line as to his present orbit of
piracy, and the means of a check on his activities. But that's not
really why I've brought you here." He frowned again as if what he had
to say were difficult indeed.

"Marla Starland, your fiancee, accepted an assignment we offered her--a
delicate piece of work here on Terra that only a very beautiful, and
very clever young lady could perform. And," he paused, grimacing,
"somewhere between Venus and Terra, the interplanetary spacer bringing
her and several other passengers, began to send distress signals.
Finally, we couldn't contact the ship any more. It is three days
overdue. All passengers, a cargo of radium from Venus worth untold
millions, the spacer itself--seem to have vanished."

Dennis Brooke's space-tanned features had gone pale. His large hazel
eyes, fringed with auburn lashes, too long for a man, were bright slits
that smouldered. He stood silent, his hands clenched at his sides,
while something cold and sharp seemed to dig at his heart with cruel
precision.

"Marla!" He breathed at last. The thought of Marla in the power
of Koerber sent a wave of anguish that seared through him like an
atom-blast.

"Commander," Dennis said, and his rich baritone voice had depths of
emotion so great that they startled Commander Bertram himself--and
that grizzled veteran of the I.S.P., had at one time or another known
every change of torture that could possibly be wrung on a human soul.
"Commander, give me one ... _one_ chance at that spawn of unthinkable
begetting! Let me try, and I promise you ..." in his torture, Dennis
was unconsciously banging a knotted fist on the chaste, satiny surface
of the priceless desk, "I promise you that I will either bring you
Koerber, or forfeit my life!"

Commander Bertram nodded his head. "I brought you here for that
purpose, son. We have reached a point in our war with Koerber, where
the last stakes must be played ... and the last stake is death!"

He reached over and flipped up the activator on a small telecast set
on his desk; instantly the viso-screen lighted up. "You'll now see
a visual record of all we know about the passenger spacer that left
Venus with passengers and cargo, as far as we could contact the vessel
in space. This, Dennis," the Commander emphasized his words, "is your
chance to redeem yourself!" He fell silent, while the viso-screen began
to show a crowded space port on Venus, and a gigantic passenger spacer
up-tilted in its cradle.

       *       *       *       *       *

They watched the parabola it made in its trajectory as it flashed into
space and then fell into orbit there beyond the planetary attraction of
Venus. On the three-dimensional viso-screen it was uncannily real.

A flight that had taken many hours to accomplish, was shortened on
the viso-screen to a matter of minutes. They saw the great, proud
interplanetary transport speeding majestically through the starry void,
and suddenly, they saw her swerve in a great arc; again she swerved
as if avoiding something deadly in space, and point upwards gaining
altitude. It was zig-zagging now, desperately maneuvering in an erratic
course, and as if by magic, a tiny spot appeared on the transport's
side.

Tiny on the viso-screen, the fatal spots must have been huge in
actuality. To the Commander of the I.S.P., and to Captain Brooke, it
was an old story. Atom-blasts were pitting the spacer's hull with
deadly Genton shells. The great transport trembled under the impact of
the barrage, and suddenly, the screen went blank.

Commander Bertram turned slowly to face the young I.S.P. captain, whose
features were a mask devoid of all expression now, save for the pallor
and the burning fire in his eyes.

"And that's the sixth one in a month. Sometimes the survivors reach
Terra in emergency spacers, or are picked up in space by other
transports ... and sometimes son ... well, as you know, sometimes
they're never seen again."

"When do I leave, Commander!" Dennis Brooke's voice was like a javelin
of ice.

"Right now, if you wish. We have a new cruiser armored in beryloid with
double hull--a new design against Genton shells, but it's the speed
of the thing that you'll want to know about. It just about surpasses
anything ever invented. Get the figures and data from the coordination
room, son; it's serviced and fueled and the crew's aboard." He
extended his hand. "You're the best spacer we have--aside from your
recklessness--and on your success depends far more than the capture of
an outlaw." Bertram smiled thinly. "Happy landing!"


                                  II

Their nerves were ragged. Days and days of fruitless search for a
phantom ship that seemed to have vanished from space, and an equally
elusive pirate whose whereabouts were hidden in the depths of
fathomless space.

To all but Captain Brooke, this was a new adventure, their first
assignment to duty in a search that went beyond the realm of the
inner planets, where men spent sleepless nights in eternal vigilance
against stray asteroids and outlaw crews of ruthless vandal ships. Even
their cruiser was a new experience, the long, tapering fighter lacked
the luxurious offices and appointments of the regular I.S.P. Patrol
spacers. It placed a maximum on speed, and all available space was
hoarded for fuel. The lightning fast tiger of the space-lanes, was a
thing of beauty, but of grim, sleek beauty instinct with power, not the
comfortable luxury that they knew.

Day after day they went through their drills, donning space suits,
manning battle stations; aiming deadly atom-cannon at empty space, and
eternally scanning the vast empty reaches by means of the telecast.

And suddenly, out of the void, as they had all but given up the search
as a wild goose chase, a speck was limned in the lighted surface of the
viso-screen in the control room. Instantly the I.S.P. cruiser came to
life. In a burst of magnificent speed, the cruiser literally devoured
the space leagues, until the spacer became a flashing streak. On the
viso-screen, the speck grew larger, took on contours, growing and
becoming slowly the drifting shell of what had been a transport.

Presently they were within reaching distance, and Captain Brooke
commanded through the teleradio from the control room:

"Prepare to board!"

Every member of the crew wanted to be among the boarding party, for
all but George Randall, the junior member of the crew had served his
apprenticeship among the inner planets, Mars, Venus and Terra. He felt
nauseated at the very thought of going out there in that vast abyss of
space. His young, beardless face, with the candid blue eyes went pale
when the order was given. But presently, Captain Brooke named those who
were to go beside himself:

"You, Tom and Scotty, take one emergency plane, and Dallas!"

"Yes, Captain!" Dallas Bernan, the immense third lieutenant boomed in
his basso-profundo voice.

"You and I'll take a second emergency!" There was a pause in the voice
of the Captain from the control room, then: "Test space suits. Test
oxygen helmets! Atom-blasts only, ready in five minutes!"

George Randall breathed a sigh of relief. He watched them bridge the
space to the drifting wreck, then saw them enter what had once been a
proud interplanetary liner, now soon to be but drifting dust, and he
turned away with a look of shame.

Inside the liner, Captain Dennis Brooke had finished making a detailed
survey.

"No doubt about it," he spoke through the radio in his helmet. "Cargo
missing. No survivors. No indication that the repulsion fields were
out of order. And finally, those Genton shells could only have been
fired by Koerber!" He tried to maintain a calm exterior, but inwardly
he seethed in a cold fury more deadly than any he had ever experienced.
Somehow he had expected to find at least one compartment unharmed,
where life might have endured, but now, all hope was gone. Only a great
resolve to deal with Koerber once and for all remained to him.

Dennis tried not to think of Marla, too great an ache was involved in
thinking of her and all he had lost. When he finally spoke, his voice
was harsh, laconic:

"Prepare to return!"

Scotty Byrnes, the cruiser's nurse, who could take his motors through a
major battle, or hell and high water and back again, for that matter,
shifted the Venusian weed that made a perpetual bulge on his cheek and
gazed curiously at Captain Brooke. They all knew the story in various
versions, and with special additions. But they were spacemen, implicit
in their loyalty, and with Dennis Brooke they could and did feel safe.

Tom Jeffery, the tall, angular and red-faced Navigator, whose slow,
easygoing movements belied the feral persistence of a tiger, and the
swiftness of a striking cobra in a fight, led the small procession of
men toward the emergency planes. Behind him came Dallas Bernan, third
lieutenant, looming like a young asteroid in his space suit, followed
by Scotty, and finally Captain Brooke himself. All left in silence, as
if the tragedy that had occurred aboard the wrecked liner, had touched
them intimately.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aboard the I.S.P. Cruiser, a surprise awaited them. It was young George
Randall, whose excited face met them as soon as they had entered the
airlocks and removed the space suits.

"Captain Brooke ... Captain, recordings are showing on the new 'Jet
Analyzers' must be the trail of some spacer. Can't be far!" He was
fairly dancing in his excitement, as if the marvelous work of the
new invention that detected the disturbance of atomic jets at great
distance were his own achievement.

Dennis Brooke smiled. His own heart was hammering, and inwardly he
prayed that it were Koerber. It had to be! No interplanetary passenger
spacer could possibly be out here at the intersection of angles Kp
39 degrees, 12 minutes, Fp 67 degrees of Ceres elliptic plane. None
but a pirate crew with swift battle cruisers could dare! This was the
dangerous asteroid belt, where even planetoids drifted in eccentric
uncharted orbits.

Dennis, Tom Jeffery and Scotty Byrnes raced to the control room,
followed by the ponderous Dallas to whom hurry in any form was
anathema. There could be no doubt now! The "Jet Analyzer" recorded
powerful disturbance, atomic--could be nothing else.

Instantly Captain Brooke was at the inter-communication speaker:

"Crew, battle stations! Engine room, full speed!"

Scotty Byrnes was already dashing to the engine room, where his beloved
motors purred with an ascending hum. Aboard the I.S.P. Cruiser each
member of the crew raced to his assigned task without delay. Action
impended, and after days and nights of inertia, it was a blessed
relief. Smiles appeared on haggard faces, and the banter of men
suddenly galvanized by a powerful incentive was bandied back and forth.
All but George Randall. Now that action was imminent. Something gripped
his throat until he could hardly stand the tight collar of his I.S.P.
uniform. A growing nausea gripped his bowels, and although he strove to
keep calm, his hands trembled beyond control.

In the compact, super-armored control room, Captain Brooke watched
the telecast's viso-screen, with hungry eyes that were golden with
anticipation. It seemed to him as if an eternity passed before at
last, a black speck danced on the illuminated screen, until it finally
reached the center of the viso-screen and remained there. It grew by
leaps and bounds as the terrific speed of the cruiser minimized the
distance long before the quarry was aware of pursuit.

But at last, when the enemy cruiser showed on the viso-screen,
unmistakably for what it was--a pirate craft, it showed by its sudden
maneuver that it had detected the I.S.P. cruiser. For it had described
a parabola in space and headed for the dangerous asteroid belt. As if
navigated by a masterly hand that knew each and every orbit of the
asteroids, it plunged directly into the asteroid drift, hoping to lose
the I.S.P. cruiser with such a maneuver. Ordinarily, it would have
succeeded, no I.S.P. patrol ship would have dared to venture into such
a trap without specific orders. But to Dennis Brooke, directing the
chase from the control room, even certain death was welcome, if only he
could take Koerber with him.

Weaving through the deadly belt for several hours, Dennis saw his
quarry slow down. Instantly he seized the chance and ordered a salvo
from starboard. Koerber's powerful spacer reeled, dived and came up
spewing Genton-shells. The battle was on at last.

From the banked atom-cannon of the I.S.P. Cruiser, a deadly curtain
of atomic fire blazed at the pirate craft. A ragged rent back toward
midship showed on Koerber's Cruiser which trembled as if it had been
mortally wounded. Then Dennis maneuvered his cruiser into a power
dive as a rain of Genton-shells swept the space lane above him, but as
he came up, a lone shell struck. At such close range, super-armor was
ripped, second armor penetrated and the magnificent vessel shook under
the detonating impact.

It was then that Dennis Brooke saw the immense dark shadow looming
immediately behind Koerber's ship. He saw the pirate cruiser zoom
desperately in an effort to break the gravity trap of the looming mass,
but too late. It struggled like a fly caught in a spider-web to no
avail. It was then that Koerber played his last card. Sensing he was
doomed, he tried to draw the I.S.P. Cruiser down with him. A powerful
magnetic beam lashed out to spear the I.S.P. Cruiser.

       *       *       *       *       *

With a wrenching turn that almost threw them out of control, Dennis
maneuvered to avoid the beam. Again Koerber's beam lashed out, as he
sank lower into the looming mass, and again Dennis anticipating the
maneuver avoided it.

"George Randall!" He shouted desperately into the speaker. "Cut all
jets in the rocket room! Hurry, man!" He banked again and then zoomed
out of the increasing gravity trap.

"Randall! I've got to use the magnetic repulsion plates.... Cut all the
jets!" But there was no response. Randall's screen remained blank. Then
Koerber's lashing magnetic beam touched and the I.S.P. ship was caught,
forced to follow the pirate ship's plunge like the weight at the end of
a whiplash. Koerber's gunners sent one parting shot, an atom-blast that
shook the trapped cruiser like a leaf.

Beneath them, growing larger by the second, a small world rushed up to
meet them. The readings in the Planetograph seemed to have gone crazy.
It showed diameter 1200 miles; composition mineral and radio-active.
Gravity seven-eighths of Terra. It couldn't be! Unless perhaps this
unknown planetoid was the legendary core of the world that at one time
was supposed to have existed between Jupiter and Mars. Only that could
possibly explain the incredible gravity.

And then began another type of battle. Hearing the Captain's orders to
Randall, and noting that no result had been obtained, Scotty Byrnes
himself cut the jets. The Magnetic Repulsion Plates went into action,
too late to save them from being drawn, but at least they could prevent
a crash. Far in the distance they could see Koerber's ship preceding
them in a free fall, then the Planetoid was rushing up to engulf them.


                                  III

The atmosphere was somewhat tenuous, but it was breathable, provided
a man didn't exert himself. To the silent crew of the I.S.P. Cruiser,
the strange world to which Koerber's magnetic Beam had drawn them,
was anything but reassuring. Towering crags jutted raggedly against
the sky, and the iridescent soil of the narrow valley that walled in
the cruiser, had a poisonous, deadly look. As far as their eyes could
reach, the desolate, denuded vista stretched to the horizon.

"Pretty much of a mess!" Dennis Brooke's face was impassive as he
turned to Scotty Byrnes. "What's your opinion? Think we can patch her
up, or are we stuck here indefinitely?"

Scotty eyed the damage. The atom-blast had penetrated the hull into
the forward fuel chambers and the armor had blossomed out like flower
petals. The crash-landing had not helped either.

"Well, there's a few beryloid plates in the storage locker, Captain,
but," he scratched his head ruminatively and shifted his precious cud.

"But what? Speak up man!" It was Tom Jeffery, his nerves on edge, his
ordinarily gentle voice like a lash.

"But, you may as well know it," Scotty replied quietly. "That parting
shot of Koerber's severed our main rocket feed. I had to use the
emergency tank to make it down here!"

For a long moment the four men looked at each other in silence. Dennis
Brooke's face was still impassive but for the flaming hazel eyes. Tom
tugged at the torn sleeve of his I.S.P. uniform, while Scotty gazed
mournfully at the damaged ship. Dallas Bernan looked at the long,
ragged line of cliffs.

"I think we got Koerber, though," he said at last. "While Tom was doing
a job of navigation, I had one last glimpse of him coming down fast
and out of control somewhere behind those crags over there!"

"To hell with Koerber!" Tom Jeffery exploded. "You mean we're stuck in
this hellish rock-pile?"

"Easy, Tom!" Captain Brooke's tones were like ice. On his pale,
impassive face, his eyes were like flaming topaz. "Where's Randall?"

"Probably hiding his head under a bunk!" Dallas laughed with scorn. His
contemptuous remark voiced the feelings of the entire crew. A man who
failed to be at his battle-station in time of emergency, had no place
in the I.S.P.

"Considering the gravity of this planetoid," Dennis Brooke said
thoughtfully, "it's going to take some blast to get us off!"

"Maybe we can locate a deposit of anerioum or uranium or something for
our atom-busters to chew on!" Scotty said hopefully. He was an eternal
optimist.

"Better break out those repair plates," Dennis said to Scotty. "Tom,
you get the welders ready. I've got a few entries to make in the log
book, and then we'll decide on a party to explore the terrain and try
to find out what happened to Koerber's ship. I must know," he said in a
low voice, but with such passion that the others were startled.

A figure appeared in the slanting doorway of the ship in time to hear
the last words. It was George Randall, adjusting a bandaged forehead
bumped during the crash landing.

"Captain ... I ... I wanted ..." he paused unable to continue.

"You wanted what?" Captain Brooke's voice was terse. "Perhaps you
wanted to explain why you weren't at your battle station?"

"Sir, I wanted to know if ... if I might help Scotty with the welding
job...." That wasn't at all what he'd intended to say. But somehow the
words had stuck in his throat and his face flushed deep scarlet. His
candid blue eyes were suspiciously brilliant, and the white bandage
with its crimson stains made an appealing, boyish figure. It softened
the anger in Brooke's heart. Thinking it over calmly, Dennis realized
this was the youngster's first trip into the outer orbits, and better
men than he had cracked in those vast reaches of space. But there had
been an instant when he'd found Randall cowering in the rocket-room, in
the grip of paralyzing hysteria, when he could cheerfully have wrung
his neck!

"Certainly, Randall," he replied in a much more kindly tone. "We'll
need all hands now."

"Thank you, sir!" Randall seemed to hesitate for a moment, opened his
mouth to speak further, but feeling the other's calculating gaze upon
him, he whirled and re-entered the ship.

"But for him we wouldn't be here!" Dallas exclaimed. "Aagh!" He shook
his head in disgust until the several folds of flesh under his chin
shook like gelatin. "Cowards are hell!" He spat.

"Easy, Dallas, Randall's a kid, give 'im a chance." Dennis observed.

"You Captain ... you're defending 'im? Why you had a greater stake in
this than we, and he's spoiled it for you!"

"Yep," Dennis nodded. "But I'm still keeping my senses clear. No feuds
on my ship. Get it!" The last two words cut like a scimitar.

Dallas nodded and lowered his eyes. Scotty shifted his cud and spat
a thin stream of juice over the iridescent ground. One by one they
re-entered the cruiser.

       *       *       *       *       *

Absorbedly Randall added finishing flourishes to the plate of beryloid
he had just finished welding. With the heavy atomic welder in his
hands, he paused to inspect the job. Inwardly he wished that Scotty
and Dallas would hurry with that final plate. He could just barely
hear them pounding it into shape, within the cruiser. Unconsciously he
shivered.

Outside the cruiser, it was cold, and breathing was laborious, for
despite the gravity, the atmosphere was thin, diffused. Besides, this
shadowy world of dark crags and palely creeping sunlight had an uncanny
feel, as if it were evil. For the hundredth time he twisted around and
surveyed the rocky terrain behind him. Determinedly he squared his
shoulders and jutted out his chin. It was bad enough to have muffed
a chance to add glory to the I.S.P., not to speak of having the rest
of the crew think him demented. Still the feeling of being _watched_
persisted. Randall cursed his imagination, and over-wrought nerves
that made him feel what palpably didn't exist. He closed his young eyes
for a second and strove to steady his nerves.

He breathed deeply of the tenuous atmosphere and exhaled slowly; then
he opened his eyes, feeling more calm and turned to make one final
survey, and stood rooted to the ground as if petrified.

From a dark crevice in the jagged wall behind the I.S.P. Spacer,
something seemed to glide effortlessly into the open. About twenty
feet from Randall it paused and remained stationary, hovering above
the rocky surface. It was perfectly spherical, fully three feet in
diameter, and had George Randall not been hysterical with dread, he
would have seen that it was exquisitely beautiful, a softly shining,
transparent globe that pulsed rhythmically with lambent fires. A
wavering, lavender corona, like an aura, surrounded it as it began to
spin slowly.

From nerveless hands the atomic welder dropped to the ground, as a wave
of surging panic engulfed Randall. With an eerie, half-strangled scream
he clawed for the atom-blast at his hip. He had a brief impression
that the globe was sentiently alive, and that something that felt like
tendrils of fire probed his brain. His hair stood on end as the icy
fear deepened to the verge of madness.

"Scotty! Dallas!" He shouted, and then realized he couldn't be heard
above the pounding within the cruiser. He aimed at the globe and
squeezed the trigger. The tremendous energy released by the atom-blast
flung the globe back, by blasting the surrounding air in furious waves,
but regaining its equilibrium the globe began to zoom forward again,
_undamaged_!

Randall waited no longer, he raced for the open hatch of the cruiser
with the speed of horror. He scrambled madly, almost dived into the
opening and had the presence of mind to pull the lever that slammed the
door shut behind him. He lay there panting, completely unnerved by the
experience.

Dishevelled and horror-stricken was the way Scotty and Dallas
found him, when on hearing the hatch clang shut, they rushed in to
investigate.

"What happened, an attack? Koerber's men?" Scotty queried.

"Speak up, Randall!" Dallas shook him briefly. "What was it? You look
as if you'd seen a ghost!"

"There's something out there.... I don't know what it is, but it's
alive. It almost got me!" He shuddered.

"Something alive on this barren world? Unless it was one of Koerber's
men, you've been seeing ghosts again, kid!" Scotty said not unkindly.
He was well aware of spacemen's mirage, the affliction that sometimes
drove newcomers mad.

"It was real," Randall persisted. "And it was alive ... a glowing globe
of energy that hung just above me, a few feet away. I blasted at it
with my gun, and it just spun, then came forward."

       *       *       *       *       *

He rose from the floor and moved over to the starboard port to look
outside. Scotty and Dallas stood beside him. They gazed curiously in
every direction, as far as they could see.

"Don't see a thing," Dallas said stolidly. "Come on, son! I'll fix you
a sedative," he said contemptuously.

"Wait a minute Dallas," Scotty interrupted. "Randall's right. Take a
look at that big pile of rocks over there ... to the left, Dallas!"

"By the red-tailed Picaroons on Jupiter's satellites!" Dallas swore
swiftly. "I've seen a lot of queer sights, but nothing like this!" he
exclaimed. Suddenly he turned to Randall. "How do you know it's alive?
For all we know it's just a globe of radio-active energy native to this
hell-spot."

Randall colored, hesitated and finally blurted out. "I ... I just felt
it was alive. I sensed it trying to contact my mind.... Oh, I know it
sounds crazy, I know you'll laugh, but the thing was trying to probe my
brain, Dallas!"

Scotty suddenly thought of Captain Brooke and Tom Jeffery who had gone
on an exploratory trip. "I wonder about the Captain and Tom," he said
in alarm. "If there's one of these whirling demons on this rock there's
sure to be others." He raced to the communications set and turned it
on. But it was silent.

Dallas gazed at Randall for a second with a faint, scornful smile.
"Alive, eh? We'll see." He patted the atom-blast at his hip.

"Never saw nothin' dangerous yet that this couldn't put a hole
through!" He exclaimed inelegantly.

"Hold on, Dallas!" The more prudent Scotty tried to dissuade him. "If
that thing's radio-active, it may be deadly! We're not afraid of it,
man ... but we don't know what it is."

"You boys stay and play the radio!" Dallas turned lightly on his feet
for all his tremendous bulk and soon the airlock had hissed open and he
was gone.

Both Scotty and Randall watched him half-fearful, half in admiration
as he strode away from the cruiser. The luminous, iridescent sphere
hovering over the rocks, whirled faster and faster as Dallas moved away
from the ship. Rapidly the whirling accelerated until it was a pulsing
vortex of exquisite hues of living light. Then, it began to move slowly
forward toward the walking man.

In the macabre landscape of the planetoid, the rotund Dallas was not
unlike a sphere himself, as gun in hand he unhesitatingly went forward
to meet the globe. Calmly he aimed the atom-blast and suddenly there
was a flash from the muzzle of the gun. But the flood of vicious atomic
energy failed to harm the globe, on the contrary, it seemed to flame in
a cataract of colors, flaming into living light. Then the fluorescent
flare died down to normal again and the sphere stopped, motionless as
if it were appraising Dallas.

In unfeigned wonder, the blimp-like Dallas Bernan stared at the globe.
"A full charge from the blaster, and the damn thing takes it like a
drink of milk!" he murmured audibly. Reaching over he picked up a good
sized rock and threw it at the sphere. But the rock bounced back as if
it had hit an impenetrable wall of energy. The globe was unharmed, it
merely hung there quiescent now, as if observing the strange creature
from another planet that had suddenly appeared.

Another rock followed the first, then another and another, until rocks
were flying in every direction as they rebounded from the globe. And
Dallas began to laugh! To his matter-of-fact mind, the sphere was
merely a bunch of radio-active gas that repelled matter of certain
types like the stones he had thrown, and was drawn by organic matter.
A bunch of gas! He roared. And the globe was retreating, floating
backwards effortlessly, whirling faster and faster, until as Dallas
flung a final rock it darted upward and swiftly disappeared down the
great valley. As Dallas turned to go back to the cruiser, a flicker
of movement caught his eye. Instantly he aimed his atom-blast, but as
quickly lowered, and a joyous expression came into his vast face.

Clambering down the tumbled rocks and boulders just ahead of the
spacer, Captain Brooke and Tom Jeffery were hurrying toward him, the
latter carrying the insulated leadite specimen box.

"Hiya, Captain! We just laid a ghost. See our pretty company?" Dallas
roared with laughter.

"Yes, we saw it," Captain Brooke replied. "What was it? Looked like a
transparent globe of some sort. Radioactive?"

"Naw! Just a bunch of gas!" Dallas explained.

"Well, we have another kind of company ... about twenty miles from
here," Dennis said grimly. "Get into the ship, we're holding a
conference, Dallas."

       *       *       *       *       *

Seated in the small dining-room of the cruiser, the entire crew
listened to the Captain's report on their trip, while Scotty brewed
coffee skillfully and cocked his ears to the narrative. Tom laid the
leadite specimen box on the table without a word, then sat back.

"I'll cut corners on this," he began. "Because we have a lot to do, and
a very short time to do it in. Approximately twenty miles westwards,
there's a cavern that runs through the crags around us. Jeffery and
I started to explore it, but fortunately stopped just in time. It
happens that Koerber and his thugs have landed on the other side of
the crags. This cave is filled with some sort of radio-active mineral,
unfortunately, the main deposits are at the other end of the cavern
system, and Koerber and his gang are already in possession! He must
have crashed there. Pity the situation is not reversed, we'd have ample
fuel then!"

"But, Captain," Randall spoke impulsively, "why can't we get some of
the mineral from this end of the cavern and blast off this awful place?"

Dallas gave the youngster a look of withering disgust from across the
table.

"No good," Tom Jeffery answered for the Captain without looking at
Randall. "The stuff at this end's mostly rubble; we had to dig the
better part of an hour to find a piece rich enough to use." He pointed
to the leadite box.

"The plan is simplicity itself," Captain Brooke continued. "We'll use
this specimen for fuel to zoom over the crags and attack Koerber ...
we've got to take possession of the other end of the cave. Without
sufficient fuel, we can't fight Koerber to a finish, and I intend to
go into that black cruiser of his if I have to crack it open like a
Venusian palm-nut!"

Dallas and Scotty's eyes glowed. "Any time you say, Captain!" the
latter said eagerly. "Cruiser's hull's finished but for a few minor
touches. Just give the word!"


                                  IV

Captain Brooke tightened his safety belt thoughtfully, then his glance
travelled slowly to where Lieutenant Jeffery sat, fingers poised over
the gleaming bank of keys.

"I suppose we really should test this specimen first," the captain
observed. "However, if we did, I doubt if we'd have enough left for
fuel to smash Koerber." He flipped a tiny switch in the panel before
him. The silver screen lighted, and Scotty's features appeared.

"Ready 'n waiting on the firing line Cap'n!"

"Switch over to relays and strap in, Scotty, I'll give you thirty
seconds," Dennis grinned, then turned to Jeffery:

"Ready Lieutenant?"

Jeffery took one more look into the V-screen, made a last second check
of his objective--the high peak about twenty miles down the valley. As
soon as the peak was reached, the cruiser would be under full manual
control and he would dart the swift sky-tiger from the heights down on
Koerber's spacer, in a terrific power dive. He nodded satisfied, "Yes,
sir, ready!"

"Take off!" The command whipped out and Jeffery's fingers flashed over
the rows of keys with automatic precision. For the fraction of a second
there was a muffled, rumbling thunder. Then, both Dennis Brooke and
Jeffery were slammed back against their air-cushions as the astounding
crescendo of acceleration hit them.

Twisting his head slowly, Captain Dennis looked at his navigator in
astonishment. Tom Jeffery had always been the acme of dependability,
his precision in plotting had practically become a legend in the I.S.P.

"Cruiser's running wild!" Jeffery gasped painfully. "The key bank
must ... be out ... of order. I'd never ... never use that much speed
on take-off!"

"Slack off...." Dennis gritted. He saw Jeffery struggle to get his
long, supple hands back on the keys. Blood throbbed and pounded in
surging waves at his temples, and he knew he'd black out in a matter of
seconds if his Navigator didn't reach those keys.

Concentrating all his remaining energy, Jeffery reached and pushed one
hand forward, but it was like pushing against an invisible wall. His
hand refused to move any further, and then he felt the impenetrable
blackness welling up inside his brain. Nervelessly the Navigator's
hand dropped, but two fingers scraped over the key-bank and the
flashing cruiser changed its course. The ship angled upward sharply and
gradually reduced its speed. Like two punch-drunk mortals, Dennis and
Jeffery shook their heads, doggedly trying to clear the clinging black
webs from their brains.

They were not unnerved, for to these two, danger was too familiar a
face, it was a constant shadow at their heels, the eternal companion at
their table--without it, life would have seemed flat, without zest.

"Worse than a shot of Martian _Absytron_! Whew!" Jeffery exclaimed,
startled out of his usually laconic state. "That mineral's terrific!"

"I was just thinking the same thing," Captain Brooke agreed quietly.
"Which makes it doubly important that we settle scores with Koerber and
leave this planetoid. If the reaction of this mineral's true, we've
found a new type of fuel, far more powerful than anything known to us
at present."

"Imagine if that space-rat gets hold of it," Jeffery concurred in awed
tones. "He could rule the space-lanes, commit any crime and outpace any
ship in the universe!"

"Besides," Dennis said ruminatively, "this mineral'd make Terra
independent of Venus for her supply of radio-actives. It would usher
in a new era, Jeffery!"

Suddenly it seemed to Dennis that there was even more at stake than
the smashing of a dangerous outlaw, than the recovery of his former
state in the I.S.P., or the avenging of Marla, if she were dead--the
destiny of Terra was at stake too. As if one of those cross-roads of
Life, at which an individual is sometimes poised by fate, had opened
before his gaze, and history awaited being written in the invisible
pages of space. He had come prepared to die to fulfill a mission--but
now matters had changed. The need was not to die, but to live, that
an unsuspecting world might rise to new heights of achievement on the
incredibly radio-active marvel of this unknown planetoid. With a swift
movement he threw on the panel switch, and his voice boomed out:

"All hands attention! Koerber has seen us, no doubt. But whether or not
he's fore-warned, we attack as scheduled. Stand-by!"

The I.S.P. Cruiser swept back up the long valley, until it was almost
opposite the Pirate's camp. Only the tremendous mountain range
separated them. Glancing at the banks of keys, the instruments and
dials under the V-Screen, Dennis issued orders:

"Scotty, give it everything you have!" He grinned as Scotty gave back
one of his inimitable replies.

"Dallas!"

"Yes, sir!"

"Take the stern turret, and start firing when we pull out--angle
thirty-eight, precision!" He again threw a quick glance at the panel.

"Randall! Take forward position, secondary turret. Hold fire till they
open up, or until I give you the command. Got it?"

"Yes, sir," Randall's voice was tense.

It was then Captain Dennis turned to his Navigator. "I'll take the main
forward turret myself, Jeffery! Now, use a thirty-five degree dive,
pull out at five-hundred feet and use MA-24 to pull out and regain
altitude." He grinned fleetingly at the startled Jeffery.

"But ... but you're going to man the forward turret--get the gunner,
Cap'n ... I...." But Dennis silenced him with a swift gesture.

"Taking no chances, I want to be sure that spawn of Barrabas's
smeared, if I have to do it myself!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The long, gleaming cruiser was like the spear of the Angel Gabriel,
unerring, fatal, as the skillful fingers of its navigator in the
control room swept over the keys and the ship obediently canted
downward. Suddenly it took the plunge in a supernal power-dive that
sent it hurtling straight at the Pirate's camp below. All around the
cruiser a rain of Genton-shells exploded in buffeting succession, as
the cruiser quivered and strained holding the dizzying dive.

From the main forward turret, a stream of fire scorched the
surroundings below, starting great fires on the stacked supplies
which had been removed from Koerber's ship to facilitate repairs. The
atom-blast raised clouds of iridescent mineral as it peeled the ground
like a gigantic knife. But the Genton-Shells prevented close aim, as
the explosions buffeted the cruiser off her course. Captain Dennis
finally came into the control room.

"They saw us, all right," he growled angrily. "I wasn't able to come
closer than a hundred feet of Koerber's ship with the gun!"

"They've almost got us boxed in, sir. I can't hold her on much longer."

"All right then, Jeffery, pull out ... right bank ... that should throw
them off long enough for us to break away. Give me a few seconds to
adjust my sights, I'm going back to the turret!"

The great cruiser had reached its objective and swept like a stupendous
bird of death over the Pirate camp spewing a rain of death. Two pirates
caught behind mounds of supplies and provisions were blasted together
with the boxes that protected them. The stern turret of the black
Pirate cruiser was a melting, incandescent mass as Captain Brooke's
atom-blast found its mark. Suddenly the meteor-like vessel canted to
the right and zoomed upward at the same time, then with vertiginous
speed flashed beyond the range of the Pirate's full fire-power, leaving
Koerber cursing in impotent fury. The sound of wracking concussions
died away; the unearthly ascending whine of the atom-blasts ceased, and
the cruiser flashed back to base.

"At least we'll have a choice this time where to set the ship down,"
Lieutenant Jeffery said wryly, as he watched the changed scene on the
V-screen before him.

Watching also, Dennis Brooke suddenly leaned forward with great
interest, but abruptly the emergency thermo-bulb flashed on and off and
a shrill buzzer sounded. Dennis threw the switch quickly.

"We'll have to set her down, Cap'n!" Scotty announced. "She's reached
the danger mark."

"Hell!" Jeffery exclaimed succinctly.

"Set her down!" Dennis ordered, but the ship was already headed
groundwards.

The air lock on the cruiser opened and the crew jumped to the ground.
It was the same bizarre landscape, harsh, Dantesque, extreme.

"Since we've reached a temporary impasse," the Captain explained to
them, "we may at least examine something I happened to see just prior
to landing. I have a vague idea concerning this small world; it is just
possible I may be right."

"What did you see, sir?" Randall, forever impulsive and emotional,
asked, curiously apprehensive.

"You probably won't like the idea so much, Lieutenant," Captain Brooke
said quietly, shifting the weight of his atom-blast on his hip. He
smiled thinly, "We're going to investigate some of those playmates of
yours--the spheres!"

Randall's face tightened with a peculiar expression. He started to
speak, then noting Dallas' sardonic smile, he stopped.

"Just before we landed," the Captain continued, "I saw a large pit
filled with the globes up in the plateau just ahead. I want to try an
experiment. From what I saw happened with you Dallas, when you tried to
blast that globe and then threw rocks at it and it went away, and yet,
it pursued Randall ... well, I have a theory that I want to test. If it
works, we may yet turn the tables on Koerber."

       *       *       *       *       *

With perfect confidence, Captain Dennis turned and began to stride
toward the plateau in the near distance. Without hesitation Dallas
strode behind him, followed by Scotty and Jeffery, and a few other
lesser members of the crew. Only Randall hesitated as if an awful
premonition paralyzed his steps. He seemed to make an heroic effort,
and hesitantly at first, then with greater confidence he began to
follow the leaders.

At last they were standing at the rim of the vast pit; looking down,
Dennis realized it must be all of a mile in width. It seemed filled
with clusters of the globes which vibrated gently at the bottom.

"Millions of the damned things!" Dallas exclaimed.

The pit sloped down to a point at the center of the bottom, and there
was the immense cluster of globes that Dennis had seen. From small
ones, the size of thermo-bulbs, to gigantic spheres fully six feet in
diameter, it was a pulsating, shimmering mass of changing opalescences,
a seething cauldron of prismatic hues, dormant now, but ready to flame
into living light.

Randall, the last to arrive, approached the edge and gazed down. The
ethereal, ghostly seeming spheres with their pulsating auras sent an
icy shiver of dread along his taut nerves. He shuddered and turned to
the others. "Let's go," he said hoarsely. "Those demons might come
floating up here!" There was a hysterical quality to his voice that did
not pass unnoticed to Captain Dennis, who was observing him closely.
"Let's go!" Randall cried again, his face contorted.

Suddenly there was a stream of movement below; from the central mass
of globes, several detached themselves and floated silently upwards in
swirls of living light.

Cold, unreasoning fear surged into Randall's mind. In his hysteria,
the spheres were coming after him! His thin face with the wide,
fear-stricken blue eyes was ashen while his lips twitched to form words
that failed to come. At last he managed to scream: "Run! They're coming
after us." And Randall was racing pell-mell back to the spacer.

Captain Dennis stood his ground, Dallas beside him. "Come here, you
fool!" Dennis cried exasperated. But it was too late. With flashing
speed two of the spheres outraced Randall and now hovered over him.
They were whirling into a vortex of incredible light, lovely beyond
description, and beneath them, convulsed with horror, Randall raced for
his life.

"Action!" Dennis shouted. Instantly several atom-blasts spewed their
deadly charge into the two pursuing globes. They drank in the awful
energy charge and glowed supernally vivid, still unharmed, then,
swooping downwards they charged Randall, and the boy was fighting
them, flailing his arms wildly, haphazardly trying to fend them off.
The other members of the party had now held their fire, for Randall
was enmeshed in the luminous globes. And suddenly the globes seemed
to become part of the boy's body, enveloping it in their translucent,
fatal embrace.

Before their eyes, they saw the boyish form shrivel and fall crumpled
to the ground as if all the energy had been absorbed in that unearthly
embrace of living light. In an instant it was over.


                                   V

Lazily, the two spheres floated upward, their fire deepening into
swirls of colors, swirling slowly over the prostrate figure as if
exulting.

Unutterable horror showed in Captain Brooke's eyes; then flaming anger
shook him. "The dirty...." Dennis ground out the words from set, taut
lips. Furiously he began blasting at the globes. The spheres rocked
and twisted in the tortured air currents, then gradually they rose and
floated up the valley.

Dennis kneeled beside the still form of Randall; slid his hand under
the boy's jacket. He rose slowly and faced the rest of the awed crew,
his eyes topaz slits of consuming fury.

"Now we know how dangerous, how deadly those entities are; for make
no mistake, they are entities. A strange, unearthly form of life that
can suck a man's life-energy. Randall had good reason to be afraid,
poor kid! Those globes react to the most powerful of the emotions,
and fear being perhaps one of the strongest, unerringly draws them. I
feel somehow responsible for this boy's death. Still, he has not died
in vain, for in his sacrifice, he has given us a clue to Koerber's
ultimate defeat." He paused gazing somberly at the still form at his
feet: "Remember, he died a hero, for whatever success we may have, we
shall owe to him!"

Rocks iridescent and vari-hued were piled high into a cairn, making
Randall's last resting place, in the depths of the space he had feared
so.

The remaining members of the crew walked back slowly to the waiting
ship. A dark silence hung over the group as they filed to their
respective sleeping quarters. All but Captain Dennis, Dallas, Jeffery
and Scotty, who went on to their council room. Quietly they took their
places at the small table. Jeffery sat with his long hands on his lap,
silent, while Scotty methodically tamped down the Venusian tobacco with
which he had filled his blackened pipe. Dallas said nothing. His vast
bulk overflowed the seat and his tremendous chest heaved with emotions
alien to his nature. All of them seemed, to be waiting for Captain
Dennis Brooke's words. The latter sat down last, absorbed in thought.
When he spoke, his voice was quiet, sombre almost.

"I told you," he began without preamble, "that I had a vague
theory about those spheres. Well, I know now. Randall proved
it this afternoon. There can be no doubt that those globes are
radio-active--the way they react to our atom-guns leads me to believe
that they subsist on energy--radiant energy from the mineral and
radio-actives of this planetoid. Their atomic scale must be such that
their component atoms make up the two missing elements in our atomic
scale! _This is the first time that man has ever encountered these
two elements._ And of course, this is the first time these spheres
have ever encountered humans--organic life--on an atomic scale so
far removed from their own. Naturally they're curious. They tried to
investigate and what they encountered from Randall was _fear_! _Perhaps
the second strongest emotion._ Our fear must send out intangible
vibrations that impinge harshly upon their own vibrations and lead them
to attack. What fear arouses in them, we shall probably never know.
The fact is that our human emotion of _fear_ in conflict with their
vibratory rate renders them fatal, and even seems to draw them with a
strange magnetic attraction!"

For a moment every one of the four was silent, as the explanation
cleared so much of the mystery before them. Then Captain Dennis walked
over to the locker where the space-suits were racked. He began slipping
into one of the bulky suits.

"I'm going outside again. If this spacer's insulation against the
spheres, there's no reason why a space-suit should not be also. Two
of you cover me from the stern turret, and two--including a crew
member, from the forward turret, you can at least delay their attack by
blasting air currents, in case _they do attack_!" He dogged the last
clamp into place and moved heavily through the doorway.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men watching from the gun turrets saw Dennis approach the vast
pit which seemed to be the abode of the sphere. The face-plate of his
helmet was open. For minutes he stood motionless on the rim of the pit.
They knew he was concentrating, duplicating the emotion of fear. Then
with a catch in their throats they observed groups of the spheres rise
majestically from the depths and swoop toward the waiting Dennis.

With a swift gesture Captain Brooke snapped the face-plate closed. The
spheres came to a complete stop about twenty feet from the waiting
captain. The globes pulsed gently, as if waiting ... waiting.

Again Dennis opened the face-plate wide, then snapped it shut. In the
brief interval the spheres had darted into action, sweeping closer.

Turning at last, Captain Dennis strode back to the ship, and slowly the
flaming globes sank back into the pit out of sight.

"It works," Scotty yelled delightedly, as the other men ran to their
airlock to greet their Captain.

Once again at the table, Dennis began: "Now we can have a definite
plan. Here's the strategy, two of us will use space-suits and rocket
belts to lure as many of the spheres as possible to a point near
Koerber's camp, and _one of us must enter Koerber's domain with a ready
made story_! That man, the one to enter Koerber's camp, will be _the
bait for the spheres_. He will concentrate on maintaining the powerful
emotion of fear in his mind, as strongly as he's able. Dennis paused,
his hazel eyes brilliant with anticipation, surveying the men around
him.

"All of us know that the chosen man may not come through this
alive--Koerber may not believe his story ... the spheres may succeed
in getting him. However, if he's clever and quick...." Captain Dennis
shrugged his great shoulders. It was then Jeffery interrupted him:

"We'll draw lots for that, won't we, Captain?" His voice was harsh.

A faint nod from Dennis accepted the question as a fact. The Captain
walked over to a cabinet and picked up something. Returning to the
table he continued:

"The fourth man will have to stay here and broadcast." He turned a
small box over on the table and several objects the size of small
coins, spilled out. "These midget speakers may or may not work--anyway,
propaganda at a psychological moment has intense effect, and is worth
trying out. The man who goes into Koerber's camp will take some
of these and get rid of them in strategic places wherever he can.
Remember, the job of broadcasting is just as important as any other
in this set up. Keep hammering at them. They won't be able to locate
the speakers until it is too late. Keep pounding into their heads
that this _new weapon of the I.S.P. is invincible_! Tell them it is
radio-controlled and invulnerable as far as present arms are concerned.
Keep working on them ... don't let up for a minute!"

Jeffery had been methodically tearing strips of paper and now he handed
them to Dennis.

"Three strips of paper, Captain ... and four men!"

Dennis searched the grim, tense faces before him, then handed the
strips to Scotty who picked up a book and started putting the strips
between the pages. The other members of the council watched his back
curiously, until the crash of an overturned chair snapped their heads
around. They looked squarely into the muzzle of an atom-blast gun.
Their jaws went slack with astonishment.

"I am the commander of this cruiser," Captain Brooke's voice, flat and
opaque had an unequivocal finality. "Walk over to the wall, stand five
feet from the base, lean forward and press your hands against the wall!"

With the three men completely off balance, Dennis methodically disarmed
them. He placed all their weapons on the table, and then proceeded to
encase himself in one of the bulky space-suits, keeping a careful eye
on the fuming Dallas. As he dressed he continued to talk.

"I know that nothing short of this could convince you to let me be
the man to enter Koerber's camp. But it's got to be this way. I swore
to enter that black cruiser if I had to take it apart, and by Venus'
thinking spiders, I'll go through with it! If Marla's there, she has to
be rescued from that cut-throat gang--besides, I think I can make up a
much more plausible story, being as I was the one in disgrace with the
I.S.P., not you!" He was dressed now, and stood for a moment gazing
at their reddened faces. "I'm leaving now, I'll dog this door when I
leave. There's an atomic welder in the locker and you can get out in
three-quarters of an hour. The rest is up to you men." He was gone as
the metal door clanged tightly shut.

       *       *       *       *       *

Trudging along the iridescent stretch of desolate ground, the thought
uppermost in Dennis' mind was Marla. He was torn between the fear of
what that brutal, conscienceless pirate might have done to her, and
the fear she might have survived. Try as he might to reconstruct the
emotion of fear, he failed time after time. Only the dull, ceaseless
fury at Koerber remained in his mind, and his heart, a fury that
smouldered in the depths of his being.

Slowly he approached the camp where Koerber's men tried to repair the
damage his raid had made. Dennis kept his hands slightly in the air,
and his feet kept kicking a scuff of glittering dust that could be
easily noticed.

Without warning, an atom-ray blasted bits of a rocky cliff to Captain
Brooke's right and an invisible voice boomed out:

"Hold it, copper!" There was a noticeable awe in that voice and it made
Dennis smile. The scum remembered, it seemed!

Dennis stopped abruptly. "I'll talk to Koerber," he said coldly.

"Hold it right where you are, Captain Koerber's coming outside," the
same voice shouted.

Cautiously Dennis let another of the midget speakers fall to the ground
behind him.

The circular airlock opened and a ladder descended automatically. Down
the steps came a short, heavy-set man. His aquiline features would
have been handsome because of their symmetry, and the pale olive skin
tanned by the vast spaces, but for the perpetual sneer that twisted
rather full lips. Koerber's wide set eyes, were dark, brilliant, and
just now had a sort of incredulous amusement, as if the spectacle of
Captain Dennis Brooke come to parley with him were something quite too
fantastic to believe.

"Well ... well! This _is_ a land of miracles!" He flashed a sardonic
smile, displaying white, even teeth.

"Considering my reputation for ... er ... shall we say dishonor?" He
smiled again, "You are risking a great deal by coming here, aren't you,
Captain?"

Captain Brooke shrugged his vast shoulders, and a thin smile of
contempt curved his lips. "It occurs to me, Koerber, that at my age men
are neither rash nor fools ... unless the stakes are high. And," he
paused deliberately, conscious of the instant interest his words had
aroused, "and it happens that the stakes are beyond ... far beyond all
that you and I, and even the I.S.P., are worth. Man, our feet are now
_on the base of a great empire_!"

Interest, cupidity and astonishment mingled in the expression of
Captain Koerber's face. Finally he guffawed.

"Captain, they say that too many nights in the Jovian Chamber turns a
man's mind, I am beginning to believe it!" Then his face darkened:

"Let's finish it quick, Dennis, what're you selling?"

"A partnership in an empire, in exchange for Marla!" Dennis Brooke said
quietly but with deadly emphasis, ignoring the pointed barb.

Koerber still gazed at the space-suited figure incredulously. With an
imperious motion of his powerful hand, he motioned Captain Brooke up
the ladder, then followed at a distance, his hand on the atom-blaster.
He had not noticed Dennis drop another tiny speaker on the ground
behind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside the black cruiser, Dennis was herded by two gunmen into a
spacious cabin. It was furnished in the splendor of priceless loot from
the ships of several planets. He felt his atom-blast lifted from its
holster and the indignity of exploratory fingers seeking hidden arms.
He walked past them to see Koerber seated in what had evidently been
a Martian imperial chair, a throne-like affair of priceless hardwoods,
incrusted with rare metals and jewels, and bearing a canopy of soft,
ocelandian furs, with jewelled brooches at the corners. He sat silent,
the faint satirical smile still on his lips, as if for once in his life
the very depths of his involved and merciless soul were filled with
joy, as indeed was the case. "Speak your piece!" he said insolently,
and motioned for the guards to cover the exit.

"I shall be brief," Dennis shrugged his shoulders. "Marla means more
to me than anything else. What can she be to you than just another
passing conquest? There's no satisfaction in possession without love,
Koerber--and _there are other things that you would prefer_!"

"For instance!" The words came like a whiplash.

"Wealth beyond even your imagination, and power ... power as you have
never even conceived could ever fall into your hands, man!"

"How do you know Marla's alive?" The sardonic grin became sadistic in
its enjoyment at the fleeting shadow of pain that crossed Dennis' face.

"Because," Dennis spoke slowly, quietly, "she's too valuable for you
to miss the chance to ransom her. You know the I.S.P., never lets its
agents down--you knew she'd accepted an assignment, didn't you?"

"Of course, I have scouts in every planet, and means of communication
even you don't know anything about--like that scout you knocked out on
Venus," he finished venomously.

"Well?" Dennis said laconically.

"You'll have to explain better. Where's the wealth and all this power
you're talking about to come from?"

Dennis knew he was playing his last card. If the man had even a shred
of humanity, of intelligent selfishness, the way was open, if Koerber
allowed his undying hatred of the I.S.P. to dominate him, he'd have to
fight for his life.

"All right, I'll give it to you. This planetoid is full of a new
radio-active metal of such terrific power that used even in its raw
state it can supply power for speeds beyond anything known to us at
present. The reason you saw our ship before we attacked was that
we used a small specimen of the mineral and it flung us into space
with such terrific acceleration that it almost sent us beyond the
planetoid's gravity. If my navigator's hand had not fallen on the keys
and changed the course, we would have been wrecked. There are untold
billions of credits in radio-active mineral strewn on the surface. Now,
if you can't imagine what that means ... what's the use of my talking.

"It'll make us invulnerable. A few tons of this new fuel will purchase
a fleet of spacers of the first order, such as this one you have,
Koerber; and with a fleet powered by the mineral we can conquer any
planet. Power ..." Dennis laughed. "Man, we'd lord space!"

As Dennis spoke, the expression of Machiavellian greed and cunning in
Koerber's face heightened, mingled by triumph. At last his laughter,
peal after peal of cold, remorseless laughter thundered in the
luxurious cabin.

"You fool, you utter fool! _You_ have told me this and expect me to
bargain with _you_! So you would share with me supreme power over the
known universe.... One reason why I've lived so long is that I never
share with anyone, and I never trust anyone, copper!" He flung the
final insult in Dennis' face, and laughed to see Dennis' eyes blaze
with murderous fury.

"Throw him in the cell!" Koerber said imperiously. Instantly the two
gunmen went into action, prodding Dennis with drawn blasters. They
drove him down a corridor to a metal cell and heaved him into it, then
left him lying on the metal floor.


                                  VI

In the semi-darkness of the armored cell, the wicket through which
the guard could watch the prisoner was a square of light. Only, there
was no guard. Only an atomic-welder could have pierced that tough
shell--unarmed, within the pirate cruiser, surrounded by armed guards
at every exit, Dennis hadn't the ghost of a chance. He sat up on the
cold metal floor, and strove to point his mind to the task ahead. And
the last midget speaker slipped from his pocket to roll across the
floor, coming to a stop at a corner of the wall. Dennis could not
suppress a smile.

Then he heard a voice he had thought never to hear again. A wave of
feeling engulfed him.

"Dennis ... Dennis, my dear!" Framed in the wicket, the lovely features
of Marla, smiling despite the brimming eyes, smiling at him in
encouragement. His heart leapt upwards as if it would leave his body,
as he rose in a single bound and was at the wicket, kissing hungrily
the exquisite lips. He could not speak, for seconds, that Marla was
alive was that his heart could wish. For a moment he was weak with the
tremendous reaction. "You're safe ... safe ... not hurt ... Marla," he
was incoherently repeating.

"Quick," Marla cautioned. "Take this!" She slipped a deadly atom-blast,
the smaller variety once carried by women into his hand. "They never
found it on me--being a woman I have prerogatives. I have been held
for ransom until now, and here on this deserted world, having no means
of escape I was allowed comparative freedom within the ship. But I
heard what you told Koerber, Dennis. Now that he knows untold wealth
is within reach of his hand, he may have another fate in store for me.
For the past few days he has been changing ... becoming amorous. I know
he's trying to win me, Dennis ... as only a woman can know!"

"Take this blaster back ... and use it!" Dennis said fiercely.

"No need," she smiled, her eyes luminous. "I have a better way. I'll
not be harmed, Dennis." She kissed him as if all her heart were in that
kiss, despite the vertical bars that divided them, then she was gone,
leaving behind the faint fragrance that she always wore, like a scent
in the garden ways, or an echo in the wind.

One last card remained to him. One last venture wherein his life would
hang from so slender a thread, and yet.

He began to scream and shout with a passion that raised reverberating
echoes in the enclosing metal cell. Almost immediately the metal door
opened with a bang, and the powerful figure of Koerber flanked by
guards with drawn atom-blasts was silhouetted in the light.

"Have you gone space-crazy, you rat?" Koerber growled through clenched
teeth. "What's the racket for?"

"You double-crosser," Dennis spat like an animal at bay, "if I have to
be caged like this, after telling you about my discovery, at least you
could let me have some air. You've got the air rectifiers shut off in
here, and it's worse than in the caves! Want me to choke?"

"Haw!" One of the guards guffawed. "That's real good, boss ... saves us
the trouble of shooting 'im!"

"Shut up!" Koerber rumbled. "Double-crosser, eh? What made you
think I'd cut you in on the discovery? But you've given me an idea!
Branche ... Jennings! Truss him up and carry him out to the cave.
The radio-active minerals'll take care of him better'n anything
else." His sadistic nature gloated on the thought of Dennis' gradual
disintegration as the powerful radio-active vibrations bombarded his
being.

Koerber's smile was like a feline caress, but his eyes were feral in
the ecstasy of his triple triumph. He had Marla, the wealth and power
of a new universe before him, and, his greatest enemy condemned to a
horrible death.

Thoroughly trussed, they carried Dennis to the entrance to the cave
system where the radio-active minerals were in greatest abundance. Then
they threw him carelessly on the rough, rocky ground.

"I can watch you from here," Koerber said silkily, "as you slowly rot
away. We'll be working on the spacer for at least four more hours
before we blast off, time enough for the effects of the radiations to
begin to show, eh Dennis?"

There was no doubt in Captain Brooke's mind what would happen to
Marla, and to the I.S.P. cruiser when Koerber was ready to leave. The
monstrous egotism of the man demanded a series of triumphs, for he
already saw himself as a supreme ruler. He watched the guards walk back
to the cruiser, where most of the crew were engaged in final repairs,
and he was glad, fiercely glad, so he could concentrate. All the fear
he felt for Marla, all the horror at the murder of his comrades and the
destruction of his cruiser, and the vast, awful vision of a universe
ruled by a sadistic madman, utterly evil, began to flood into his mind
as he willed himself to emotionally see these things realized.

Suddenly he was aware that through auto-suggestion, he was beginning
to feel fear, _real fear_! He thought of the luminous spheres ...
there was something monstrous about them ... the way they sucked the
life-energy from poor Randall. He continued to elaborate and build up a
crescendo of horror. A blast of thunder from Koerber's ship shook the
cave.

       *       *       *       *       *

The distant sun was moving rapidly toward the horizon's rim, and the
swift settling twilight enhanced the spumes coming from the jets of the
black, pirate spacer. As the rumble of the warming rockets died to a
murmur, Dennis saw two guards leave the airlock of the pirate cruiser.
They were Jennings and Branche. They must be almost ready to leave,
he thought. The guards came to where he lay and roughly jerked him to
his feet then dragged him further inside the cave, where the deadly
radio-actives would really get to work on his body. Then they dropped
him unceremoniously as they turned with a start.

Like black magic, a stentorian voice had begun speaking, filling the
melancholy dusk of the eerie planetoid, as the thundering tones seemed
to come from everywhere. Ear-drums throbbing with the vibration, the
guards jerked Dennis back to the cave entrance, the binding cords that
tied Dennis becoming dangerously ragged with the dragging over the
rough ground he had endured twice.

"Bren Koerber! Attention! This is the I.S.P." The voice rolled and
echoed. "You're completely surrounded. Resistance will be futile! You
have just one minute to get your men together in front of your ship.
Throw your side-arms in a pile on the ground!"

Koerber appeared at the lock of the pirate spacer then he scrambled
down with surprising agility, followed by three of his men.

"Who in hell is playing jokes!" The pirate roared. "Come on!" He yelled
at the two guards now at the cave's entrance. "You ... Branche ...
Jennings! Who's getting funny? Somebody's going to get their heads
blasted off for this!"

But instantly on the heels of Koerber's tirade, came Scotty's voice,
magnified a hundred times:

"Your time's almost up, Koerber! Fifteen seconds more and _the newest,
most deadly weapon of the I.S.P._ will be released against you!"

Even though he was still concentrating on the spheres and the emotion
of fear, Dennis felt a sudden exaltation. But he brushed it aside and
continued to recreate the terrible fear that had begun to invade his
being under his relentless auto-hypnosis. Subconsciously he could hear
Scotty's sonorous voice describing the horrible, irresistible weapon
that was to be used. Scotty was doing a magnificent job of laying it
on, with variations!

Koerber gazed around in stupefaction, then spying the prone figure
at the mouth of the cave, he cursed at Dennis and then began to race
across to the trussed up figure of his enemy, but he was halted by a
hoarse shout from one of his guards:

"Boss, look! _There is_ something coming!" The guard yelled excitedly.

Still lying on the ground, where the guards had dropped him, Dennis
could barely see the top of the cliff behind him. Over the edge, high
above the plain, swept cluster after cluster of the glowing, gloriously
shimmering spheres. A myriad rain of lavender, greens, pulsing reds and
flamboyant blues, iridescent, flaming with inward fires and spinning
ever faster the spectral globes swept downwards in the deepening
twilight with dazzling speed.

"Get the gun working, you scum!" Koerber cursed, pointing to the
portable atom-ray still remaining outside the spacer. Two men jumped at
his order and the livid ray blasted skyward. Blasting fiercely for a
few seconds, the two outlaws hesitated. Astonishment then fear crossed
their stubbled faces. The deadly ray was merely expanding the globes,
which flared into incandescent light and, kept right on coming down!

Huge chunks out of the side of the cliff behind the zooming spheres
crashed to the plain. And still the glittering flood of glowing globes
kept flowing on. His men must have done a wonderful job of luring the
deadly spheres, Dennis thought with a part of his mind.

"Needle guns!" Koerber screamed, rushing over to the two men who
stopped firing. "Use your hand guns, men! Someone get atomite capsules,
we'll blast whatever these things are out of space!"

Picking up the heavy atom-ray, Koerber cradled it in his powerful arms,
sweeping the deadly projector in wide arcs through the approaching,
luminous mass. Suddenly, Koerber shouted again. One of the men
near the stern of the ship had dropped his weapon and was running,
horror-stricken, across the broken ground.

"Come back here, you rat!" Koerber shrieked, swinging the big atom-ray
around. But he had no need to fire, a glowing globe fully six feet
in diameter, already was pursuing the doomed, fear-maddened creature
with vertiginous speed. Koerber saw it suddenly descend and envelop
the running figure, and in seconds the outlaw was a shrunken mass that
dropped to the ground like a squeezed fruit.

[Illustration: _The spheres rolled down in a deadly wave._]

Koerber's eyes were blazing as he whirled around and screamed at his
men: "Fight ... fight you lousy rats!" Uncontrollable passion twisted
his features in a fiendish snarl at the thought of losing the supreme
power and unimaginable wealth he had thought to be within his grasp.
His voice rose piercingly above the concussions of the atomite capsules
that at his command had been brought into action.

But unknown to him, stealthily, a growing fear was creeping into
his brain as all his efforts and the deadly fire of atom-blasts,
atom-ray and atomite capsules failed to even destroy a single globe.
The unearthly, macabre appearance of the luminous globes was already
playing havoc with the men's minds, and one by one the outlaws fled
shrieking into the darkness, to be consumed by the glowing spheres.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the impenetrable blackness of the cave, Dennis Brooke had stopped
building the emotion of fear. With part of his mind he sought to
dispel the stubborn auto-hypnosis, and slowly, he was able to regain a
measure of normalcy. The thought of Marla helped, as with the growing
destruction of Koerber's men, he deliberately forced himself to see
her safe, in his arms. And slowly he came back out of the abyss of
fear into which he had purposely pushed his courageous mind. It took
patience, infinite patience and time, but time was growing short. He
rubbed the frayed bonds that bound his arms back of him, against the
jagged outcroppings of radio-active rock, until he burst them with
herculean strength, then it took a matter of seconds to free his legs.
Painfully he stood up, and let the blood course with exquisite torture
through his semi-paralyzed limbs. Then he sought the tiny atom-blast
Marla had given him to conceal.

The space in front of the black spacer was milling with men battling
spheres, a vortex of flaring illumination that hungrily enveloped the
maddened crew. Now and then, another man sank to the ground a lifeless
hulk. Suddenly one of the spheres came floating into the cave, curious,
attracted by the remnants of the fear vibrations and approached Dennis.
The Captain saw it enter and illuminate the impenetrable darkness,
he laughed. A few moments ago it would have meant his life, but now
he contemptuously bent down and picking a glittering specimen of
radio-active mineral flung it unerringly at the gently spinning globe.
As if the sphere weren't even there, the I.S.P. Captain strode out of
the cave. It was then he saw his own crew, space-suited, exultant,
spewing green death from their atom-blasts at the milling remnants of
what had been the scourge of the space-lanes. Far to one side he spied
Koerber, now a demoniac figure still firing the few remaining charges
left in the atom-ray. Saw him finally drop the useless weapon and turn
to fend off the swooping spheres. In a few bounds Dennis was beside him.

At the sight of Dennis, the scowling face went black with fury. He
sprang forward with both arms jabbing like pistons. Dennis swerved and
again planted a terrific left to Koerber's solar-plexus, it almost
doubled the pirate over, but Koerber was not through. He knew death was
very close, but he meant to take with him the one man he blamed for his
defeat. He came in with a fury that swept all before him, impervious
of the rain of blows that Dennis aimed at his face, and unleashing a
right to Dennis' jaw, he put every ounce of remaining power behind
it. But the I.S.P. Captain moved slightly, letting the blow whiz past
his face, then flat-footed, he let his right ride with the power of a
sledge-hammer. Koerber's face lost contour, a gout of dark, welling
blood flooded over it and he sank to the ground.

Suddenly Dennis' own men saw him, and came running to where he stood
planted over what remained of Koerber, pirate of the space lanes. His
chest heaving, clothes torn, he heard them as if in a dream, as they
shouted in joy at the complete victory they had achieved. It was only
when cool hands touched his face, and a remembered fragrance was in
his nostrils, that he came out of his daze. A voice was whispering the
simple words, "_my dear ... my very dear!_" Slowly he gathered Marla
in his arms and kissed her tenderly, while around him, the hovering
spheres sensed another emotion, greater even than fear--but of another
kind--that greatest of all emotions, Love.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Dennis chewed the end of his stylus. After a moment he began to
write again in the large metallic book:

    _B-XA-321_

    _2400 SCT_

    _The plan outlined in the previous entry was carried out. Operation
    successful. Bren Koerber is being brought back a prisoner. All
    members of his crew are dead. Koerber's cruiser is being towed to
    Ceres Base. Full report on radio-active mineral discovery has been
    radioed I.S.P. Headquarters, Terra. No luminous spheres captured.
    Suggest scientific expedition be sent._

    _Casualties suffered: One. Junior Lieutenant George Randall killed
    in performance of duty by one of the spheres. Recommend heroism be
    recognized by posthumous honors. Suggest Antares Cross._

Dennis Brooke, paused for a moment, uncertain whether or not to enter
in the official log book the one burning desire that dominated his
thoughts, at last he smiled and with a flourish he added:

    _Leave of absence for two months requested. Reason: Marriage. Miss
    Marla Starland has consented to honor me by becoming my wife._

Distantly he heard the muffled roar of the warming rockets. The great
cruiser was ready to leave the fateful Planetoid. He sighed in vast
contentment as he unplugged the stylus and gently closed the book.





Copyright (C) 2004 by David Baumann, Jon Cooper, and Mike Dodd.



THE RUNAWAY ASTEROID


THE STARMAN SERIES

by Michael D. Cooper

MUTINY ON MARS
THE RUNAWAY ASTEROID
JOURNEY TO THE TENTH PLANET
DESCENT INTO EUROPA
THE LOST RACE OF MARS
DOOMSDAY HORIZON

(The seventh book, THE STARLIGHT MANEUVER,
and other volumes are in preparation.)

The short stories-
The Flight of the Olympia,
The City of Dust, 
SETI,
A Matter of Time,
and Return to Europa-
are available in the first five issues of the
 Inter*Stellar, the fanzine for the Starman series.

A novelette outside the main storyline,
The Lost Tomorrow,
is serialized in "The Starman Chronicles."

All items may be ordered through the
Starman web site at www.StarmanSeries.com.


David Foster Number Two


THE RUNAWAY ASTEROID

by Michael D. Cooper

Artwork by Nick Baumann


A David Foster Starman Adventure
Copyright (c) 2004
David Baumann, Jon Cooper, and Mike Dodd
all rights reserved
ABCDE "A Baumann-Cooper-Dodd Enterprise"


The Starman Team dedicates this book
to 

Fred Woodworth

a rare and gifted individual who practices generosity in a world of
acquisitiveness, courage in a world of indifference, honesty in a
world of opportunism, and personal responsibility in a world of
buck-passing; an artist and craftsman few in this era know how to
appreciate; who has done as much as any and more than most to advance
the cause of series books; and whose genius has abundantly proven that
the books deplored by librarians of a previous age are treasures that
shaped several generations and made their readers better people.  To
Fred Woodworth of Tucson, Arizona, the series book world owes a debt
that can never be repaid.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Starman team wishes to thank

STEPHEN AVERY for coining the term "greegles." Though these remarkable 
beings will probably not reappear for several books, their place in the 
Starman series is an essential part of the saga.

TOM NARWID, amateur astronomer, for supplying the photograph which we 
used for the endpapers. The scene was taken through his backyard 
telescope in Cottonwood, Arizona.

KEVIN ANETSBERGER for preparing Tom's spectacular, multi-colored 
original photograph for publication by reducing it to two colors.

_________

The number of fans of the Starman series is growing each day, and we 
appreciate the contributions many of them have made to the project. 
Their assistance, encouragement, and technical support have helped to 
improve the storyline and scientific accuracy of the Starman adventures.


INTRODUCTION

The Starman Team dedicated its first book, Assault On Mars, to Joseph 
Greene, the late author of the Dig Allen series which was the 
inspiration for the Starman series. A complimentary copy was sent to 
his son Paul, who was moved by the tribute. We then asked Paul to write 
an introduction to The Runaway Asteroid. The following is his 
response-surely one of the most unusual introductions in any book 
anywhere, and one we are privileged to share with our readers.


Dear Dad,

A most remarkable invention is weaving the world together in a way we 
never anticipated while you were on Earth, and it netted your writing. 
Fans of your books for juveniles, The Digby Allen series, were able to 
connect to each other, share their enthusiasm for your novels, and were 
inspired to continue the voyage. Led by Jonathan Cooper, the intrepid 
mastermind of the creative crew, they made a commitment to write their 
own vision of the future. Thoughtfully, they credit you as having 
shoulders broad enough for them to stand on and see the centuries 
beyond. The invention that has made this possible is called the 
internet. There seems no need to explain what it is here, but part of 
its magic is that it can permit people to connect to each other 
independently of time and space.

The themes of Dig Allen from the 1960's have worked like the internet 
in that they functioned independently of time and space, only much more 
slowly. You presented your ideas in books as ideas are posted on the 
internet. The authors of Starman were drawn to the themes in your books 
and then each other in cyberspace, which acts as both the bookshelf and 
cafÂ for today's ideas and authors. The creators of Starman saw value 
in your stories and tried to get the publisher to renew the series. 
Sadly, your old publisher ignored them and blocked the revival, as 
though they were so much space junk. 

No one owns a theme. But the creators of Starman have shown that they 
share some of the beliefs that you express in your subjects. Their 
young men of the stars prove that they too are brave, adventurous and 
willing to sacrifice for freedom and justice.  With a loyalty toward 
each other that would create envy in every generation, they test 
themselves against cunning scoundrels. As they conquer villains, they, 
and we along with them, learn whether they measure up. Will they prove 
themselves worthy as young people have done for all time? Young readers 
can have a chance to preview something about their own lives and the 
world they will live in. And just as you believed, somehow the human 
race survives. If the world of Starman is an accurate guess on the 
future, then the good guys, the ones in the white spacesuits, will 
continue to prevail and produce more young people to keep the dream 
alive. I hope that some of the next generation of courageous young 
people will read this series. 

Your fans don't know that you started writing seriously relatively 
early in life, in the 1920's and '30's, first as a teen for your 
personal pleasure and then on your school newspaper at New Utrecht High 
School in Brooklyn, New York. Did having to learn the English language 
after speaking Russian until the age of seven help you become a better 
writer? Were your poems and letters to Mom valuable both to her and to 
your professional development? Did the comic books you authored during 
the Golden Age of comics give you a better sense of story-telling and 
dialogue or did it degrade your love of language? I know that writing 
television scripts and other creative projects supported the family 
during the difficult years of the 1950's, but how did it affect your 
later work with Digby Allen? So many of your themes are repeated and 
reworked in several of your creations right through to the late 1980's. 
Who would guess that you once wrote a paper on the use of the raven in 
several of Shakespeare's plays? Or that you wrote biology text to 
accompany a new medium, slides made from strips of 35-mm film? Would 
admirers realize that you were most interested in world events, but 
read the sports section of the New York Times first, everyday? I'm 
certain your fans wouldn't have read the American Elsewhen Almanac, a 
compilation of bits of Americana and commentary that you published in 
the 1980's. 

I want to thank the authors of Starman for giving me the opportunity to 
write the introduction to their second novel. If there is a way to 
communicate to you across the veil between our dimensional world and 
the one in which you now reside, then it must be through the pages of a 
book. After the love of family, I don't believe anything was more 
precious to you than books, so maybe this letter will be able to cross 
the divide. Just as I proofread the drafts of Digby Allen before you 
sent them to the publisher, your granddaughter and grandson proofread 
this. Perhaps that will act like a mystical booster rocket to get these 
pages to you. 

And to future space pioneers, may the solar winds be at your back.


Love,

Paul

October 20, 2000


THE RUNAWAY ASTEROID


1: Controlled Fury

"THEY'RE getting closer! They're almost on us! We won't make it into 
the Belt on time!" The navigator of the Silver Spear was on the verge 
of panic. His frenzied hands moved over the controls.

"Keep going! Keep up full speed! Make sure that we get there ahead of 
them!" Lurton Zimbardo's voice was even and controlled, but it was 
obvious that he was barely containing his volatile fury. His commands 
were not to be questioned. His nostrils flared, the muscles around his 
lips were taut, he kept his fists clenched and pounded a persistent 
rhythm on his ship's control panel. His breath sounded as if he could 
inhale and exhale the room's entire atmosphere. It was only his iron 
self-control that kept his crew from giving in to their fears.

Behind them just moments away Starman David "Zip" Foster's ship, the 
Star Ranger, was closing the gap. The pursuit had been going on for two 
days, since the Silver Spear had blasted off from Eagle City on Mars 
and escaped while the rest of the pirates were rounded up by Earth's 
forces. Zip Foster, accompanied by Starmen Mark Seaton and Joe Taylor 
and their companion Steve Cliff, had followed less than fifteen minutes 
later. The brief lead that Lurton Zimbardo's ship had was enough to 
keep the Silver Spear out of the clutches of their pursuers, but not by 
much. The crew of the Spear was suffering acutely from sleeplessness 
and mounting anxiety.

Only days earlier, Lurton Zimbardo had been second-in-command under 
Troy Putnam. Together they had organized over 500 men and attempted to 
take control of the capital city of Mars in a sudden attack. Had they 
succeeded, the pirates could have held the people of the Earth-Moon 
system hostage to their demands. The Starmen and their allies had 
thwarted the pirates' plan. Most of the pirates, including their 
leader, had been captured. Zimbardo, however, had escaped with a few 
others. With the Starmen in close pursuit, he was desperately trying to 
outrun them and return to the pirates' base in the Asteroid Belt. 

The Belt loomed up. The first few chunks of rock were visible now to 
the unaided eyes of those on the deck of the Silver Spear. In seconds, 
they were among them. The navigator screamed as the ship whipped by a 
pitted rock a quarter of a mile long, missing it by a few yards.

"Fool!" shouted Zimbardo. "Turn on the automatic pilot!" The 
navigator's eyes were the size of saucers. Immobile with terror, he 
didn't respond to Zimbardo's command. The former second-in-command of 
the pirates pushed him out of the chair, took over, and activated the 
switch that cut in the automatic pilot. Lurton Zimbardo was not 
physically imposing, but more than made up for his slight build with an 
immensely strong will and a decisive nature that was merciless whenever 
it served him.

He knew they were going too fast even for the automatic pilot to keep 
the ship safe once they entered the thick sweep of the asteroids. He 
also knew that the Belt was their only hope of escaping the Starmen on 
their trail. Powered by adrenaline, his senses were functioning at 
their peak. With amazing alacrity and intensity, Zimbardo aided the 
automatic pilot and threaded the Silver Spear through the weaving 
asteroids. It almost seemed as if he were in a trance.

Soon a dark asteroid loomed ahead, roughly shaped like a potato, 
forty-five miles long and twenty-five wide, rotating slowly around its 
longest axis. It was nearly invisible both to the eye and to the 
instruments, but Zimbardo knew where it was. He barked out a command. 
The Silver Spear slowed quickly, and moments later a huge airlock door 
opened in one of the poles of the asteroid. Zimbardo piloted the ship 
into the airlock, through the stone tunnel that led into the interior 
of the asteroid, and then touched down.

The thin, wiry man raced for the control room as fast as he could run, 
pushing men out of the way and heeding no one who called out to him. 
Once inside, he quickly pressed a series of buttons and entered a 
numeric code. Once it was entered and confirmed, he made a fist and 
slammed it hard on a large red button. Immediately all the radar 
screens were covered with snow.

Zimbardo relaxed for the first time in days. He exhaled quietly and 
actually smiled. He took a deep breath and smiled more broadly.

"Sir?" asked one of the technicians who had watched the procedure.

"I detonated a hydrogen bomb on a neighboring asteroid a couple of 
hundred miles from here. Part of a backup plan for keeping this place 
hidden. It will clog all radar screens for a few minutes. By the time 
they clear, no one will be able to find us or this asteroid."

Zimbardo's relaxed state did not last long. He swelled up with energy 
again, strode to another console, and tapped in a series of commands.

"Come here, Gene," he ordered as his fingers flew over the keyboard. 
The man he addressed quickly came to stand by the pirate leader. He was 
a well-built young man in his late twenties with short curly brown 
hair, finely chiseled features, and an obvious desire to please. He was 
well trained in the technology of space control systems. After he had 
proven his competence in the field, Troy Putnam had made him his chief 
control officer.

Zimbardo continued. "Follow these coordinates at this speed. Don't 
alter the course for any reason without my permission."

Gene looked at the planning board where the numbers were posted in a 
pleasant green light. "That course will take us out of the Belt, Mr. 
Zimbardo. Is that what you want?"

"That's what I want. It's time to move away from here. If anything out 
of the ordinary happens, let me know immediately. Find me by using my 
personal code on the communicator-no general announcement. Keep watch 
especially for any spacecraft-especially any spacecraft!"

"Yes sir!" Gene took his place and the others returned to their duties.

Once he saw that the crew members were well settled, he picked up the 
intercom and ordered his leaders to assemble in a meeting room in five 
minutes. From the few dozen pirates left, he had hand-selected five 
competent leaders to be his lieutenants: Gebbeth, Crass, Lather, 
Bolcher, and Slant.

In less than that time, Lurton Zimbardo was sitting at a table with the 
five other men. All but Zimbardo looked haggard. The pirates were 
demoralized and upset. Victory on Mars and beyond had been within their 
grasp, but it had all been blundered away. A band of several hundred 
men who had planned and worked for several years had been reduced to a 
few dozen. Their dreams of power and prominence, shaped and fueled by 
their captain Troy Putnam, had been utterly destroyed. Now Putnam was 
in custody on Mars, along with the rest of the pirates who had been 
captured by Earth's forces.

"Troy Putnam was a fool," Zimbardo announced in a quiet voice edged 
with steel. "His plan might have worked-might have worked, if I had had 
more part in planning-but he was no more than a conceited ignoramus! 
The Starmen walked in on him and took him completely by surprise! I can 
just imagine how his face must have looked as he realized his plan was 
over and he was led off to jail. A fool! We are better off without him!"

"Better off without him?" asked one man in a dull voice. "What do you 
mean, Lurton? Better off for what?"

"Don't be a fool yourself, Crass!" Zimbardo sneered. "You think we're 
finished here? We will still get what we want and it won't be very 
difficult! We don't need Putnam and we don't need a few hundred men, 
either! You can be thankful you're here instead of locked in a stone 
room in Eagle City eating square, plain, healthy meals off of a metal 
tray! The collapse of Putnam's big dream is the best thing that could 
have happened for us!"

A muscular, unsmiling man on Zimbardo's right swung his gaze to the 
speaker. "It sounds as if you have a plan, Mr. Zimbardo." The man was 
in his early thirties and resembled a street fighter. His carefully 
combed dark hair made him look almost strikingly handsome, but his eyes 
were black and humorless.

Zimbardo turned toward the man. "Yes, I have a plan. You, Gebbeth, will 
be my chief assistant and the pilot of the Tartarus, my personal ship. 
I can depend on you. Space Command's celebration on Mars will be 
extremely short-lived."

"You were always the strong one, Lurton," said another. "I kind of 
always figured you for the real leader, and I always wished it was you 
instead of Putnam."

"Now you got your wish, Bolcher. I've taken charge. I'm moving this 
asteroid out of its orbit into a place outside the Belt. Here's my 
plan."

Almost an hour later, the men left the meeting room, smiling, joking, 
and stepping lightly. Their fatigue was gone, their discouragement 
forgotten.

Lurton Zimbardo was the last to leave. Now that things were moving in 
the direction he wanted, he allowed his fatigue to take over. 
Encouraged by the support of his assistants, he felt he could rest at 
last. He walked down the halls, past various doors and entered an 
elevator. The display screen offered only the few floors in use by the 
pirates but Zimbardo had another destination in mind. Alone in the 
elevator, he punched in a special code which only he knew. When the 
proper sequence was displayed, he pressed "Enter." As the elevator 
began to move, the new leader of the pirates relaxed even further. The 
others would not know where he was, and he would be undisturbed.

He could barely sense the elevator's motion. He didn't know how far 
into the asteroid's interior he was moving, but he knew what he would 
find when he reached his destination. The door opened and Zimbardo 
stepped out. A quick walk down a short corridor brought him to a double 
door. Embossed on the doors was a huge, rich, golden symbol-a lush 
planet with about 80% blue oceans, a few continents, and thick cloud 
cover. Three small moons were arranged at the upper left, set at the 
points of an equilateral triangle. Zimbardo had been intrigued by the 
design when he'd first found it, but now he hastened through the doors 
without noticing it. He was eager to get into the Chamber beyond.

As Lurton stepped into the room, he gasped. His dozen prior visits 
still had not taken the surprise out of the room. Each time he stepped 
into the Chamber he seemed to be setting foot into another world; he 
knew he was still inside the asteroid but his senses told him otherwise.

Lurton seemed to be standing on a high mountain overlooking a vast 
plain on some forgotten planet. A pale blue sky was overhead and a 
light wind was blowing. Down below on the plain he saw a river snaking 
its way through a green forest; if he listened carefully he could hear 
the water. In the distance he saw a fantastic alien metropolis of 
beautiful glass skyscrapers; he could just barely make out ships 
hovering over it and small vehicles driving around in the distance. 
Clouds sailed gently overhead; it was near dusk.

He knew that the room was actually no more than about a hundred feet 
square, but the display was seamless. For all the world he seemed to be 
standing on another planet on a late, peaceful afternoon. He had never 
been able to find out how the room worked or where the wind came from, 
but he suspected the display was generated by some sort of holographic 
projectors far in advance of anything he had ever seen or heard of.

Lurton guessed that the scene was from the home planet of the 
asteroid's builders; perhaps the distant city was their capital. He had 
spent hours watching the room and never tired of it, for the scene 
always changed. After a certain number of hours dusk fell and the city 
lights came on. He had watched different kinds of weather and seen 
glorious sunsets and sunrises. Occasionally he caught a glimpse of a 
huge alien starship. He had seen many strange things in the Chamber and 
he was sure that he had not seen them all.

Lurton liked coming here when he was upset or annoyed; the room had a 
peaceful air that rested and soothed him. He was certainly in need of 
that now. He hadn't slept in over fifty hours and could easily have 
lain down in what seemed like soft turf and fallen deeply asleep, but 
the ethereal beauty of the Chamber's vision was restful and he didn't 
want to close his eyes for an instant while he was inside.

He thought back to the day when he'd found the room. The asteroid had 
been drifting and uninhabited for who knows how many thousands of years 
when a solitary asteroid miner had found it and discovered that it was 
hollow. He had told a few others about his find and eventually Troy 
Putnam learned of it. Zimbardo grudgingly admitted to himself that Troy 
was a genius-a weak, impractical genius, but a genius nonetheless. 
Putnam had found the miner and persuaded him to bring him to the 
nearly-invisible asteroid. He had even learned how to use many of the 
asteroid's capabilities, and then had made it the base for his foolish 
attempt to take over Mars.

Shortly after the pirates had taken residence, Troy Putnam had directed 
Lurton to explore the asteroid beyond the few floors the pirates used 
and find out everything he could about it. It was a trying assignment. 
The first few floors comprised a connected unit and the elevator codes 
were easy to learn. Moving anywhere else was a matter of trial and 
error, and the access codes were complex.

One day Zimbardo had found the Chamber. There was very little that 
could arouse any kind of sensitivity in the wiry, energetic man, but 
the Chamber could do so. Maybe it was because no one else knew about it 
and no one could see him wrapped in the depths of the emotions the room 
could inspire. The Chamber was not the only secret of the asteroid 
which Lurton had retained for himself, but it was certainly the best 
one.

At last the peace and enchantment of the Chamber overcame Lurton's 
resistance to slumber. He sat down and rested with his back against a 
tree, gazing over the landscape at the alien city. The massive trunk 
was slightly rough but not uncomfortable. Huge roots spread out in all 
directions before disappearing into the grassy soil. Branches laden 
with broad leaves made a shadow-filled canopy over the pirate leader.

As he felt sleep coming on, he fumed one more time at the Starmen and 
the stupidity of Troy Putnam. He mulled over his plan and smiled a 
little. The Starmen would live to regret what they had done to him. His 
eyes closed and his breathing became deep and regular. At last the 
pirates' new leader slept.

Above him a few birds chirped peacefully. A short distance away a brook 
murmured in lyric gentleness. The sky over the city gradually turned 
from flawless blue through lavender into violet, and silver stars 
emerged.


2: Sent to Ceres

THE SPLENDOR of the Asteroid Belt stretched away in all directions, and 
the piercing light of uncountable stars filled the background. Such a 
view was possible only in airless space. Starman David Foster was 
staring out of the window of his ship, the Star Ranger, but he was not 
really seeing anything. His brow was furrowed with an uneasy doubt. 

"Still no sign of 'em, Zip," announced Joe Taylor. The lanky six-footer 
had eased naturally into the position of pilot under David's direction. 
Joe had flown everything from ancient biplanes to interplanetary 
rockets. He understood the principles of propulsion and flight, and 
with amazing facility could learn to fly almost any vehicle designed 
for traveling through an atmosphere or the vacuum of space.

Mark Seaton had naturally become the navigator and engine master of the 
Starman crew. He specialized in engines and large, complex machinery. 
He had always had a talent for understanding machines, and he knew the 
workings of the average rocket from stem to stern.

David Foster, like all Starmen, was able to navigate and fly his own 
ship, but had a specialty in Deep Space exploration and survival 
skills. Whenever he was faced with a problem, he could think it through 
and come up with a solution with the equipment available. He was a 
natural leader. He excelled at organization and decision-making, and 
Joe and Mark were glad to be a part of the Starman team under Zip's 
leadership.

Joe continued to relate his observations. "I've scanned as far as the 
instruments can reach, and there's just nothing out there in any 
direction-except the Earth ships, of course. They should be here in 
about three hours."

"No debris?"

"No, Zip. I've found where the explosion took place and examined that 
more carefully than any other area. It was a violent blow. I think 
about a third of an asteroid was turned into dust when it went off, and 
that's powerful enough to vaporize any ship that was carrying a weapon 
with that kind of potential."

Zip shook his head as if warding off a buzzing insect. "All right. 
Nothing we can do about it." He turned to the third Starman on the 
crew. "Mark," he called out. "Would you send a report to Mars please 
and ask Commander De Koven what he wants us to do?"

"Okay, Zip."

Mark prepared the message and sent it off. The response would come 
through after a delay of several minutes. As they waited, Joe said, 
"You seem uneasy, Zip. What's there to worry about?"

"I just like completion. That ship we were chasing carried the last of 
the pirates from Mars, and I'd just feel a lot better if there were 
some debris, some evidence that they hadn't escaped."

"Zip," came a deep voice from the lounge next to the flight deck, 
"there's a lot of uncertainties in life, 'specially life in space. I 
been around a lot and believe me, the exception is when you really know 
everything that happened-and that's never."

"Sure, Steve," answered Zip, raising his voice. "I know. But I don't 
like it."

"You'll probably be uneasy most of your life then. C'mon, be like me. 
Lie down, relax, take a nap. You've been rushing for days now, 
especially the last couple when we were shooting through the void at 
top speed. Give it up now, boy. You can't do anything more."

Zip didn't answer, but he walked into the lounge. Steve Cliff was 
completely relaxed, with his feet propped on a table. His huge frame 
was sunk into the sofa deeper than Zip would have thought possible. Zip 
picked up a book that Mark had been reading, and lay down. In less than 
a minute, he was asleep with the open book face down on his chest.



"Up you go, Zip, it's dinnertime." Steve's normally boisterous voice 
was gentle and almost subdued. Zip took a deep breath and slowly opened 
his eyes. He sat up, put the book aside and ran his hands through his 
red hair.

"What's going on?"

"You've been out almost four hours. Figured I'd make myself useful so I 
whipped up some food. Here you go." Steve set a tray down on the nearby 
table. There were mashed potatoes, salad heavy on diced tomatoes just 
the way Zip liked it, and a few pieces of very thinly sliced roast beef 
in a luscious brown gravy.

"Looks delicious, Steve; thanks."

"Coffee's coming up in a minute, steaming hot with half a teaspoon of 
sugar." Zip reflected for a moment about how little time he had known 
Steve and how well he fit in to the group of three Starmen. Steve 
already knew how he liked his coffee-hot and fresh-and what his 
favorite meal was. While he was enjoying the aroma of the meal before 
tucking into it, Steve brought in the coffee.

Zip lifted a mouthful of roast beef and potatoes. "What's going on?" he 
repeated.

"Mark got hold of the big guys in Eagle City, told 'em what was going 
on out here. They told us to wait until the Earth forces showed up and 
then get on back to Mars. We've been under way almost an hour." Zip 
nodded.

"Mark says there's more and wants to talk to you whenever you're ready."

"Send him in."

Mark came in as Zip put a fork into a chunk of tomato and lifted it out 
of the bowl, dripping with dressing. "This really is delicious, Steve!" 
he called out as Steve disappeared onto the flight deck, leaving the 
two Starmen to themselves.

"Steve told you we're on our way back to Mars, I'm sure," said Mark by 
way of preamble. Zip nodded. "Commander De Koven also said that we are 
to report directly to Mars Base. We drop Steve off at Eagle City and go 
right on to the Base without getting out of the ship." Mars Base was 
Starlight Enterprise's headquarters on Mars. It was a huge plant, 
covering several thousand acres of Martian desert near the north pole 
and far from any other settlement. 

"What's up?" Zip's gray eyes peered over the rim of the coffee mug as 
he took a swallow.

"There's no danger of further attack on Mars-everything seems to be 
secure in Eagle City-but we're to be given an assignment with a 
'significant time factor,' as the Commander put it. Too sensitive to 
put out over the radio even with scramblers and tight beam."

"They must've learned something from the pirates they captured."

Joe peeked around the corner. "No-I think they're going to give us a 
medal and a month off for liberating Eagle City!"



Two days later, the Star Ranger was cruising at a good clip a few miles 
above the Martian desert. Eagle City was behind them, and the course 
was set almost due north. Mark was reminiscing about the parting with 
Steve.

"Don't worry about a thing, boys-I'll make sure the little folk get 
back to the Moon safely enough." Steve was referring to Jack and Jill, 
the diminutive citizens of Titan who had played a critical role in 
rescuing Eagle City from the pirates during their assault on Mars.

Mark felt very badly that he hadn't been able to see the Titanians. 
Four days before, they had left Mars without notice to begin the 
frantic chase of the escaping pirates, and now they were urgently 
called to Mars Base with no time permitted to see their friends. 
Personal relationships were important to Mark. As the Star Ranger 
returned to Mars from the Asteroid Belt, he had made a recorded 
greeting and farewell for Jack and Jill and entrusted it to Steve. Mark 
was beginning to realize that for him, the life of a Starman would be 
marked with frequent partings and sorrows.

The always-ebullient Joe did not seem to be affected. "Don't worry 
about it, we'll see them again. They'll understand. Right now we're off 
on another adventure!"

As the Star Ranger approached the pole, Mark shifted his mood and hoped 
that Joe would be right.

"Oooh, yes! Look at that!" exulted Joe, pointing out of the front of 
the ship. A light came over the horizon like a flame too bright to be 
looked at comfortably. The sun was reflecting off the glass-sheathed 
buildings of Mars Base, Starlight Enterprise's primary headquarters on 
the fourth planet.

As the Star Ranger rapidly closed the distance, Mark radioed for 
landing clearance.

"Gorgeous!" said Joe. From the pilot's seat he could make out the 
airport, the hangar, the sprawling laboratory and research buildings 
and the manufacturing centers. Men, robots, and machines scurried 
around the plant. Security was very high; ever since the pirate attack 
SE had redoubled its efforts to keep out unauthorized personnel. This 
was the area from which Starlight Enterprise conducted its Martian 
operations.

Immediately after landing, the Starmen were brought into a spacious 
office. As they entered, a clean-shaven man with a rather long crew cut 
looked up.

"Mr. Konig!" exclaimed Zip as he led the little parade into the central 
portion of the complex. "I sure didn't expect to see you here!" Konig 
was in charge of security throughout the entire SE system.

"Welcome to the Base, Starmen!" Konig stood up and came around his desk 
to greet each of them with a warm, two-handed handshake. He was a 
genial man, large but by no means overweight, very strong, firm, and of 
almost regal bearing. He gave the impression of being always available 
and affable, but never to be taken for granted. 

"Sit down," he continued. "What I have to say is of vital importance 
and I'm afraid we don't have time to do more than get you briefed on 
the situation. I can't even take the time to commend you for the 
outstanding work you did against the pirates. Richard is busting with 
pride over his newest Starmen! I can't say I blame him-you did 
marvelous work! You three are wanted on Earth for some special 
recognition, but unfortunately we have a brief mission for you first."

"Richard" was Richard Starlight, the head of Starlight Enterprise who 
had entrusted Mark and Joe with their Martian assignment.

"Thank you, Mr. Konig," responded Zip simply.

"The pirates only had a few men placed here at the Base, but they were 
enough to shut down operations for the few days they needed to paralyze 
Eagle City. Frankly, it was a surprise for us and Richard wanted me to 
take personal charge of security on Mars until it was quite clear that 
the threat was past. Actually, I flew in with the invasion fleet. My 
most important assignment here is to set up a secret base for Starlight 
Enterprise, which will be a backup and defense unit prepared for any 
events such as the one we've just experienced."

"A secret base?"

"Yes. I'll be looking for the best site, recruiting the right people to 
man it, and drawing up plans for construction and the tasks it will 
have to perform. I don't need to tell you that the project is highly 
confidential. I'm only telling you about it because you're Starmen, and 
it will be a resource you'll need to become familiar with. Of course, 
there will be much more information coming your way later."

Oritz Konig spoke cleanly and clearly, but gave the [DB1]impression 
that his thoughts were racing faster than he could speak. He had had to 
discipline himself to speak so that others could follow him. There were 
few wasted words when he had to get a message across, but he was able 
to converse in a way that assured his listeners that he valued them as 
people and needed their cooperation. Konig manifested an extremely rare 
combination of being a "people person" as well as having a supremely 
disciplined and task-oriented mind.

"We interrogated the pirates while you were in the Asteroid Belt. We 
started with Troy Putnam, of course, but he won't say a word. He's got 
a strange kind of strength to him-genial in a lot of ways, but utterly 
inflexible and unbreakable when he doesn't want to cooperate.

"We questioned other pirate leaders, too, of course, and a lot of the 
rank and file. Not all of them cooperated, but enough did that we 
learned that they have a base in the Belt. It's no ordinary base. Most 
of the pirates don't know its origin but they can describe what it 
looks like.

"It's a fairly good-sized chunk of hard stone, mostly iron. It's 
hollow, and the base is inside. The access port is concealed. More to 
the point, it cannot be detected by radar.

"Some of the toughest of the pirates sneered that we'd never find 
it-that it couldn't be seen even if you were right on top of it."

Joe jumped in. "But sir, this technology is not new. There have been 
craft since the late twentieth century that were invisible to radar. 
There are other ways to find them-gravitational influences, to name 
one."

"Of course, Starman Taylor. This asteroid, however, appears to be the 
work of some advanced race, other than Earth. The pirates didn't create 
it-they took it over. Its sheathing system is highly effective, highly 
effective indeed. The pirates could be lying, of course, but once the 
word got out to them that we knew about the asteroid, most of them 
seemed to swell with a kind of arrogant pride, even welcoming the fact 
that we had the information. They were confident that we couldn't do 
anything about it."

"And that explains, I'm sure, why we couldn't find them in spite of an 
exceedingly thorough search of the area," concluded David Foster, 
feeling somewhat vindicated.

"So are we to go find the asteroid?" put forth Joe, leaning forward in 
his chair.

"No, Mr. Taylor. We want you to find the man who discovered it."

Joe leaned back into his chair, a puzzled look on his face. Oritz Konig 
continued.

"The asteroid was discovered almost twenty years ago by an asteroid 
miner named George St. George. He's a loner, like so many of the 
asteroid miners. He makes a good living, but has no fixed address. He's 
constantly on the move and spends most of his time away from 
settlements in the Belt. He'll disappear for months, maybe a year or 
two-then show up on Ceres or in Eagle City with what he has found in 
the Belt and turn it into cash and supplies. Then he's gone again.

"Apparently he discovered this remarkable asteroid the pirates took 
over. He's a trusting, almost naÂve, decent man. He spoke unguardedly 
about his find at one time and Troy Putnam learned about it. Putnam had 
St. George take him to the asteroid and paid him a good price for the 
knowledge. St. George showed Putnam where it was, and then disappeared 
into the Belt. Putnam went on to build his empire of pirates."

"And now you want us to find St. George so he can show us where the 
asteroid is," inferred Zip.

"It's not that simple, Starman. We've also learned that the pirates who 
escaped are the most dangerous of the lot. Their leader is a very bad 
number named Lurton Zimbardo. The pirates were willing to obey Troy 
Putnam because he encouraged them. They liked him. He was a charismatic 
leader who gave them visions of grandeur and made them think that they 
could pull off the impossible. But they are afraid of Zimbardo-for good 
reason, from what we hear. He is a merciless, calculating spaceman, 
patiently willing to play second-in-command to Putnam while waiting for 
his chance to take over. That chance has now come.

"The pirates are greatly reduced in number now, but those who are left 
are extremely dangerous. They will be fierce, uncompromising enemies. 
St. George is the only person outside of the pirates who knows where 
the asteroid is, how to find it, and has some knowledge of how it 
works. Where Putnam was willing to let St. George go about his 
business, Zimbardo will certainly determine to eliminate him. Zimbardo 
will try hard to find St. George. You must find him first. Protect him, 
and learn from him where the asteroid is."

"What do we know about him? How can he be found?" asked Zip.

"He hasn't been heard from for over a year, and he could be anywhere in 
the Belt. But he has a friend named Montezuma Vly. If anyone knows 
where St. George is, Vly will know-and we know where Vly is."

"Why not just ask Vly where St. George is?" asked Mark.

"That's where your assignment begins," answered Konig. "Like St. 
George, Montezuma Vly is an asteroid miner. Unlike St. George, he 
doesn't wander far from his home. But Vly has a deep distrust of any 
authority figures. He lives on an asteroid he calls Montezuma's Castle. 
He claimed it over thirty years ago and enjoys his privacy. No 
government officials have any right to enter his domain. He is 
completely independent. We're hoping that where officialdom can't act, 
you young Starmen can. When he knows that George St. George is at risk, 
I'm sure he'll help you."

"Where do we find Montezuma Vly?" asked Mark, who was the navigator for 
the trio of Starmen.

"Montezuma's Castle is not far from Ceres. You can get to Vly in less 
than a day from Yellow City." Yellow City was the major center on 
Ceres, the largest and most important asteroid in the system, with a 
population of around 100,000. It doubled as a spaceport, and was a 
stopping-over and refueling point on the long voyage between the Inner 
and Outer Planets.

"Go to Ceres first and check in there. Since the pirates will be 
searching for St. George, you'll have to conduct your search 
quietly-using the Star Ranger and wearing Starman's red uniforms won't 
do on this assignment. You'll need to change ships and clothes in 
Yellow City.  The rest of the information you'll need will be provided 
for you in files which you can read as you travel."



Lurton Zimbardo called his five most trusted leaders to a meeting in 
one of the libraries on the pirates' asteroid. Each was dressed in the 
gray and black uniform that Troy Putnam had designed for the pirates 
for their failed mission to take over Mars. The meeting had been going 
on for several hours and had involved a lot of detailed organizational 
work. The men were tired and showing it. As usual, Zimbardo showed no 
signs of fatigue.

"Yes, gentlemen," said Zimbardo, "You know what to do now. We will need 
to get all of our men busy and you must drive them, drive them 
relentlessly! I don't want to take any longer on this work than we need 
to. We've been moving slowly out of the Asteroid Belt for almost three 
days."

His laser pointer made a few small red circles on a chart in the 
library. "This is where we were, and this is where we're going to be." 
The chart was nearly a full wall of smooth quartz, illumined from the 
inside and showing the nearby configuration of asteroids.

The table was strewn with large books opened to star maps, note pads, a 
couple of small computers and calculating machines, and a huge number 
of crumpled balls of paper. One man reached for a pitcher of water that 
was on the table and slowly filled his glass. Zimbardo continued.

"The manufacturing will begin tomorrow-that'll be for Stubb to oversee. 
Once the sheathing device has proven effective we can begin work on 
restoring and disguising our fleet. After that, Crass, you'll take care 
of the rest."

One of the men looked up. "What about St. George? If anyone discovers 
him he could put a serious crimp in our plans."

Zimbardo looked annoyed. "St. George will be dealt with, Mr. Slant. I 
have not forgotten him; you can leave that to me. He will never speak 
to the Starmen or anyone else."

Another spoke. "Is it really necessary to silence him? It will take a 
large number of men to make a search-men we could use on the urgent 
projects at hand. Since you've moved the asteroid from its original 
site, he can't find us now or show anyone else how to find us."

"He can't find us, but he knows how this asteroid works-almost as well 
as I do. If the Starmen learn what he knows, it could be disastrous for 
us in the unlikely chance that they ever locate us. I don't like taking 
chances, and I don't like leaving any loose ends. St. George is a loose 
end we can't afford." 

"Do you know where to find him? He doesn't have any fixed place he 
calls home."

"Our men have quietly inquired for him on Ceres and learned that he has 
a good friend, another asteroid miner named Montezuma Vly. We know 
where Vly lives, and Vly will know where St. George is. Vly doesn't 
receive visitors, but his resistance won't keep a small fleet from 
landing. One way or another, Vly will tell us where to find George St. 
George-and soon."


3: Montezuma's Castle

A FEW DAYS later, Lurton Zimbardo decided to take a tour of the 
workshops and check on progress. Where Troy Putnam's organization had 
been large, easy-going, and confident, Zimbardo's was tight, 
highly-organized, and ruthless. Its high degree of efficiency was 
dependent almost exclusively on Zimbardo himself. Once Zimbardo had 
asserted his control over the organization, the asteroid and its crew 
had rapidly become an extension of his formidable personality.

He took an elevator from his suite down to the main floor of the 
organizational complex and stepped out into the hallway. He walked with 
a firm tread, and men stepped aside with a slight deferential bow. He 
passed through the great glass doors at the end of the passage into a 
huge foyer. Passing through, he entered a courtyard, strode across it, 
and came into the working area.

About sixty men were working at various stations. The men felt that 
Zimbardo was a real leader and were glad to see their new commander. It 
was amazing how rapidly the sense of defeat had been changed to one of 
expectancy and pride. 

Every day or two another ship docked and new workers came in to join 
the crew. Zimbardo had sent out a few trusted leaders to recruit men 
form noted asteroid bases and mining operations in the proximity of his 
asteroid. He could use more men, especially skilled workers in 
electronics and mathematics, but he wasn't eager to build up a large 
force. He chose carefully. The workforce was being built up gradually 
with men he could trust. He had also invited three smugglers he had 
known before to join the operation, with their men.

"Stubb," called out Zimbardo.

"Sir," responded the man so addressed, an eager man about thirty years 
old, with sandy blond hair and baby blue eyes. He hastened up to the 
pirate leader.

"Give me a status report. The ships first."

"The sheathing systems are easy to manufacture, thanks to the ample 
supplies from the warehouses. The men are able to put them together 
rapidly, even the unskilled workers, since they just need a master 
circuit to copy. I have forty men working on these, with the skilled 
electricians checking each plate. As you know, we completed work on ten 
ships six days ago; they were tested and went out on their assignments. 
They have not returned yet. These plates we're working on now are going 
on the remaining ships, and we have already finished work on four of 
them. That leaves just three to go, including the ship that just joined 
the crew yesterday. We should be finished by tomorrow afternoon."

"Good. And the power units?"

"These are far more complicated, sir, so I only have the most skilled 
workers assembling these. The same with the propulsion units. They 
won't be ready for at least a week, not even one of them. However, once 
we get the prototype finished the rest should follow rapidly."

"How long until you have all 85 completed?"

"I should have a good number of the unskilled workers ready for a new 
assignment once they have finished with the sheathing plates. Once the 
design has been checked by the experts, we can get them cracking on the 
power and propulsion units. Of course, each unit will have to be tested 
by the experts, so I would estimate that all 85 can be operational 
within ten days-unless we run into any problems."

"Good work, Mr. Stubb. I will check on progress every day."

"Very well, sir." The man went back to work and Zimbardo returned to 
the main complex. 



Ceres was the hub of the Asteroid Belt. Nearly 600 miles across, it was 
the largest body in the ring of planetary debris that swirled and 
turned in a large swath between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It was 
the place where professional miners first arrived from Earth before 
their companies farmed them out to the mining centers on various 
asteroids. Independent asteroid miners came to Ceres once in a while 
for supplies, and corporations picked up equipment imported daily from 
Mars. Ceres, located several days' travel from the nearest sizable 
population center, was a buzz of activity.

The Star Ranger approached the large asteroid after a fast but 
uneventful journey of six days.

"Quite a cloud of starships!" remarked Joe as Yellow City came into 
view. A swarm of at least forty ships of an amazing variety of sizes, 
shapes, and vintages was moving over the port. Some were hovering, 
others were heading in toward the landing field and a few others were 
departing. None moved very fast since the space was as crowded as bees 
around a hive.

Yellow City was a well planned settlement, in spite of having been 
developed jointly by several different mining companies. Although the 
competition was fierce for the rich minerals of the Belt, cooperation 
was necessary to build the city, especially in the earliest years of 
settlement. The result was beneficial to all, as Yellow City could 
easily supply the needs of miners of all kinds as well as serve the 
traffic to the Outer Planets that almost always came by way of Ceres. 
Advancements in propulsion systems were making it possible for some of 
the newer ships to bypass Yellow City on their way to Jupiter and 
beyond, but Ceres was still a major stopping point.

Zip spoke quietly to Mark. "Mark, please let them know that we would 
like to land."

Mark opened the microphone. "Starman Mark Seaton on the starship Star 
Ranger requesting permission to land."

The response was immediate. "Yes sir, Starman! Ceres is proud to 
welcome you!" The operator went on to give directions for landing.

"Why is he so deferential?" queried Mark after communications had been 
completed.

"We're famous!" responded Zip. "We've been aboard ship since the end of 
the attempted takeover on Mars and haven't kept up with the news, but 
we've become household names. Oritz Konig told me that just as we were 
leaving the Base. We're the men who liberated Mars! The people in the 
Belt are especially pleased since the pirates had planned to blockade 
them once they had a strong hold on Eagle City. Why, you couldn't find 
another place in the Solar System that'd be happier to see us than 
Yellow City!"

The Star Ranger was given priority docking. Once its engines were shut 
down, a large crew ran to secure it and welcome the Starmen. As Zip, 
Mark, and Joe descended the ladder, eager hands reached up to help them 
down the last two or three rungs. Through the bubble helmets on their 
suits, the mechanics and service personnel were all smiles.

When Zip inquired about the offices of Starlight Enterprise, the 
Starmen were ushered to a small moonbus and driven directly to the 
site. The complex was a small two-story building set in a row of 
offices, workshops, and garages not far from the landing field. All 
buildings on Ceres were made of the gray rock native to the asteroid. 
Building material was cheap and solid, but plain.

Although the city itself was covered with an atmosphere dome, the SE 
office was located close to the landing field, not within the city 
proper. Entrance was through an airlock. Once through the airlock, the 
Starmen removed their helmets and placed them on the rack.

"Whoopee! This is fun, being famous!" exclaimed Joe, his eyes alight. 
"I hope it lasts until we get back to the Earth-Moon system! I'd like 
to enjoy it!"

"I hope so, too, for all our sakes. Your exploits have given all the 
Starmen a good name!" Joe whirled. 

"Kathryn Mullaney!" cried Joe. Mark and Zip smiled widely.

"What are you doing on Ceres, Kathryn?" asked Zip. "I haven't seen you 
since your last visit to the Academy at the beginning of our senior 
year." Kathryn Mullaney had graduated from Starlight Academy a year 
before Zip and his partners; her first assignment as a Starman was in 
the Outer Planets. She was twenty years old, wore her strawberry blond 
hair short, and had a few freckles spangled across her nose below blue 
eyes which had a touch of green in them.

"Finished my assignment on Ganymede and I'm coming back home for a 
leave which I hope will be very long! I spent eight months in the 
smallest population center in the Solar System, and can't wait to get 
back where there are crowds of people! I'm just staying here long 
enough for a quick once-over on my ship, refueling, and then I'm 
Earth-bound. In fact, I'm on my way out now."

There was a little more pleasant conversation, then Kathryn said, "I've 
got to be going, and Sim is waiting for you upstairs. Good luck!"

Zip, Mark, and Joe ascended the stairs and came to the landing. The 
stairway and corridors were very plain. There was no unnecessary 
ornamentation of any kind, and lighting was minimal. They found a door 
with a sign on it that read STARLIGHT ENTERPRISE in bold letters. A 
second line provided the name of SE's resident operations officer on 
Ceres: "Sim Sala Bim." Joe knocked.

"Come in," said a voice. The Starmen entered the door. The occupant, a 
tall, slender man of Indian extraction with black thinning hair, was 
already coming toward the door to welcome his visitors. "Welcome! So 
glad to see you! Welcome, please come in!" He ushered them into the 
room.

"Nice to see you again, Sim," greeted Zip. They sat down in a circle of 
chairs, Sim sitting near a table on which were placed all the makings 
necessary for tea. There were already two cups set out, which had been 
used recently. Sim took one for himself and set the other aside. "This 
was Kathryn's," he said as he produced three new cups for his visitors. 
"You probably passed her on your way in."

The conversation continued as Sim poured the tea from a very large 
brown earthenware teapot. Before long, Zip brought up the subject of 
their visit.

"I wish we had more time to visit, Sim, but our assignment is extremely 
urgent. We must find George St. George as fast as possible, and Oritz 
has told us that only a miner named Montezuma Vly can tell us where he 
is. We're on our way to Montezuma's Castle."

"Ah, yes," said Sim Sala Bim, "Sabbath George. He is well known here, 
but we haven't seen him in almost a year, I think. Almost a year."

"Sabbath George?" asked Mark.

"George St. George is a devout man-genial, generous, liked and 
respected by everyone. Honest to a fault. He's called Sabbath George 
because of his beliefs. The nickname is intended to kid him a little 
bit, but is really meant as a term of respect and affection. But to 
find him in short order, you will indeed have to go through Montezuma 
Vly. Montezuma's Castle is not hard to find, but getting in will be 
difficult."

"We are familiar with Mr. Vly's convictions and we wouldn't bother him 
if there were any other way to find St. George. Given the time 
constraints, we have no choice."

Sim nodded. "Montezuma's Castle is easily recognizable by its unusual 
shape. It is a true crescent, a sliver of stone with Vly's operation in 
its very center." Sim went on to provide its coordinates and other 
information the Starmen would need to find it.

Zip continued. "On this assignment secrecy is of the utmost importance. 
It is vital that no one knows who we are or what we're doing. We 
obviously can't take the Star Ranger, as the news media have made that 
ship easily recognizable. We learned that when we landed on Ceres. I 
think we're going to need to use another ship."

With Sim, the Starmen made plans to leave the Star Ranger on Ceres 
while the Starmen, dressed in ordinary clothes, quietly departed for 
Montezuma's Castle in another ship.

"I'll let you have the Vigilant Warrior," said Sim. "It's a local ship, 
designed for operating in the Asteroid Belt. We own it, but it hasn't 
been used in a while and probably no one will recognize it as an SE 
ship. It's the best I can do on short notice, but it should serve you 
well."

"I'm sure it'll be fine, if you say so," answered Zip.

Sim Sala Bim got right to work, and the Vigilant Warrior was ready for 
takeoff within two hours. As soon as it was ready, the Starmen lifted 
off from Yellow City. As Joe piloted the ship into the heart of the 
Belt, Zip looked back for a brief, wistful moment and saw the unusual 
dark red color of the Star Ranger, his ship, on the field of Yellow 
City.



 "That's it," said Mark, as the navigation equipment locked onto the 
asteroid that was the home of the elusive Montezuma Vly. 

"Hmmm. No wonder it's so hard to find," observed Zip, looking over 
Mark's shoulder for a moment. "Not far from major travelways but so 
unobtrusive you'd never notice it."

"It just hovers almost in the shadow of that large, worthless chunk 
here. Should be able to see it out the window before too long."

Joe was busy threading the Vigilant Warrior through the asteroids for 
the next few minutes. He kept the ship at a moderate pace and passed 
easily around the slowly turning asteroids. They were all moving at 
about the same speed and maneuvering was not difficult.

"Should be coming up on it about now," offered Mark.

"There it is," said Zip almost immediately. The Vigilant Warrior had 
eased its way around an oblong worldlet-the "large, worthless chunk" 
that Mark had just mentioned-bringing into view a crescent-shaped, 
stony asteroid about a mile long. It looked almost like a fat banana 
with the ends tapering into sharp points.

"Montezuma's Castle," breathed Zip. "Kind of looks like a moon for that 
large asteroid."

"I think it is," answered Mark. "It rotates around the larger chunk and 
the two make almost a helix pattern in their journey through the Belt. 
They were probably a single asteroid at one time. One powerful impact 
must have split them, but the pieces haven't drifted far apart."

"Well, let's get down there. There's no mistaking the shape of the 
'Castle.' Whatever odd shapes you can find in the Belt, that's got to 
be unique." The Starman brought the Vigilant Warrior slowly into the 
proximity of Montezuma Vly's refuge. "See if you can raise him, Mark."

Mark Seaton flipped on the communicator.

"Starman Mark Seaton on the starship Vigilant Warrior calling Montezuma 
Vly on the Castle, requesting permission to land." His voice was 
smooth, intimate, and confident. There was no response. A minute later, 
Mark repeated the message. The metallic voice of an automatic response 
system came on.

"This asteroid is private property and visitors are not welcome."

"We understand that, sir," Mark replied, "and we would not request 
permission to land if it were not a matter of urgent business of 
personal concern." A human voice came on.

"Yeah, like I haven't heard that one before! I don't want visitors! If 
I wanted a social calendar, I'd go live in a big population center like 
Ganymede. Keep going! Next services are 3,000 miles away."

"Mr. Vly, this is Starman David Foster, Commander of the Starlight 
Enterprise ship Vigilant Warrior," Zip broke in. "We understand and 
respect your reluctance to receive visitors and will stay no longer 
than necessary. We are calling on you because your friend George St. 
George has information we need which is vital to the safety of all the 
settlements on Mars and even the Earth-Moon system. We also believe it 
possible that he is in danger from violent men."

"Well, that's a new one. George in danger? What about it?"

"May we land, Mr. Vly? I don't want to take the slightest risk that our 
conversation can be overheard. We won't stay any longer than necessary."

"You've found me. May as well come in and state your business." The 
communicator was shut off from Vly's end.

Zip came up on the Castle. It didn't take long to find the landing 
site. There were two spacecraft in position in about the middle of the 
asteroid. One was a small ship suitable for local jaunts, and the other 
was a normal-sized craft capable of interplanetary travel. The name 
Sentinel was painted on the side of the larger craft. Both were very 
old and in places a little battered, but were clearly cared about and 
well kept up.

The Vigilant Warrior touched down about fifty yards from the closest of 
Vly's craft. Joe shut off the engines and pressed the security button. 
A slight shudder ran through the ship as bolts shot from the fins, 
securing the ship to the surface. The Starmen disembarked and descended 
the ladder.

"Over there," pointed Joe. The entrance to the airlock was discernible 
across the tiny landing area. The Starmen began walking toward it. The 
starfield swept away to right and left, with a couple of nearby 
asteroids visible to the eye. A great horn of stone rose up before 
them, sweeping to a point above. Behind them a similar horn curved up 
in the opposite direction.

The ground was uneven, with contours sharply defined. Jagged, broken 
rock comprised most of the terrain, with a few smooth ripples which 
rose about twenty or thirty feet from the plain. Shadows were utterly 
dark in the vacuum of space. The Starmen wore asteroid shoes, designed 
for walking in low gravity conditions. Their soles had an automatic 
"smart grip" function that gripped the ground when weight was placed on 
them, but released when the walker took another step. Without the 
asteroid shoes, the minimal gravity of "Montezuma's Castle" would have 
made walking a difficult, even dangerous, task.

The Starmen saw that the airlock was set into the side of a hill. The 
hill had been artificially cut away in front of the door. As Zip, Mark, 
and Joe approached the airlock, the outer door opened. When they had 
passed through, it shut behind them. Joe kept watch on the instruments 
as air filled the compartment. When the atmosphere had become normal, 
he removed his helmet, and Zip and Mark followed suit. They opened the 
second door and passed through. A dimly-lit stairway led down in front 
of them. About twenty-five steps brought them to the beginning of a 
short passageway. At the end was another door. It was solid.

Zip approached the door and paused. He turned his head to the other 
two, lifted his eyebrows and shrugged. Mark and Joe nodded. Zip 
knocked. The door was opened almost immediately.

A good-looking, clean-shaven man with dark brown wavy hair looked them 
over once quickly, then stepped aside. "Come in," he said, waving a 
hand while the other held the door. "I'm Montezuma Vly." He had 
powerful hands, obviously used to hard labor. His nails had grit under 
them. Strong as the hands were, they were also clearly the hands of an 
artist, capable of fine work. He shook hands with the Starmen as they 
entered.

"Wow!" said Joe, the last to enter. Vly shut the door. The three 
Starmen gazed about them. They were standing in a small room packed 
with machinery-old-fashioned machinery used for rock cutting, polishing 
stones, and mounting specimens. The heady smell of machine oil hung in 
the air, not heavy like that of an aircraft hangar but attractive and 
energizing, almost like a perfume.

The machinery was made of cast iron, with wheels and gears, rods and 
chains visible inside the cases. Mark noted that each machine looked 
lovingly maintained. The newest machine must have been at least fifty 
years old, but all were in top quality condition.

"They're made to be used," explained Vly, discerning their thoughts. 
"You can't get better machines than these today. The new stuff doesn't 
last and can't be depended on."

Mark, the engine master of the trio, immediately thought of the 
precision instruments produced by Starlight Enterprise. He opened his 
mouth, but said nothing. He knew that SE made quality machinery, but 
little of it was iron. He didn't want to make a fool of himself by 
talking about something of which he knew little. Instead he smiled and 
decided to take a closer look.

He leaned over the closest apparatus. His mild skepticism quickly 
turned to awe. "My goodness, Mr. Vly! This is incredible! These 
machines are beautiful!" Vly didn't smile, but his face softened a 
little.

Joe and Zip were looking around the room. On two walls were hung 
various hand tools. Several shelves held cans of oil and paint, boxes 
of supplies, and dozens of samples of minerals and crystals. The other 
two walls were lined with books, half of them behind glass. 

Zip turned his head to the side to read the titles of some of the 
books. He saw The Complete Works of William Shakespeare; Kon Tiki by 
Thor Heyerdahl; Homer's Odyssey; and several advanced textbooks on 
mineralogy, metallurgy, engineering, and electronics. Zip's eyebrows 
lifted. He was impressed.

Mark was looking at the books on the other wall. Basic Watercolor, he 
read. The Stories of Edgar Allen Poe was next to The Life of Johann 
Sebastian Bach. Mark whistled. "Not what I expected, Mr. Vly," he said. 
"Not at all what I expected."

"Uh huh," murmured Montezuma Vly. "Let's get down to business. Follow 
me." He squeezed past Zip in the crowded little workplace, passed 
through a narrow door on the other side of the room, and through a 
passageway. The Starmen followed.

A small furry shape leaped through the air in front of Joe. "Ack!" 
exclaimed the lanky Starman, stumbling backward, knocking over a couple 
of small boxes as his arms flailed. Nuts and bolts scattered on the 
floor. Joe backed into another box and sat down hard on it.

"What-?" exclaimed Vly, turning.

"What was that?" cried Joe. "Something jumped across the corridor. I 
think it went into this recess here." He pointed to an opening between 
a few stacked boxes.

"One of my koalangs," answered Montezuma. "I've got four of them here. 
There are a few more in the living quarters. Good company. They can 
startle you, though, and they can make an awful mess. More than once 
I've threatened to make stew out of 'em and eat 'em for dinner." The 
Starmen looked at one another, wondering if he was joking. His next 
action showed that he was.

"Come on, Howard," said Montezuma gently, bending over and calling into 
the dark place where the koalang had hidden. "They won't hurt you. I 
know you're not used to company, but no one's gonna hurt you. Come on 
out. That's it, come on." He reached in gently and drew a small 
creature out of the darkness. It had a small furry face with large, 
frightened eyes, and snuggled up against the miner. Its fur was caramel 
and white. He folded it into his chest and covered it gently with both 
hands. He crooned to it lovingly for a moment or two, then said, 
"That's right. You're okay. Go play." Then he added with mock 
fierceness, "Just stay out of the paint!" He set it down and turned 
back to the door at the end of the corridor.

"In here," he directed, leading the way into the room beyond.


4: Sabbath George

THE ROOM was smaller than the Starmen had anticipated. Its small size 
was accentuated by being packed to the ceiling with a variety of items. 
Hand tools identical to those used by rock hounds for centuries lay on 
tables and on shelves. Stacks of paper, most of which showed signs of 
being bound by hand, covered much of the remaining space. On one shelf 
was a large, clear sphere on an ornately shaped stand. The eyes of all 
three Starmen were drawn to it.

"Have a seat," offered their host.

There were three chairs. Montezuma sat in one placed before a desk and 
swiveled to face his visitors. Zip and Joe took the other chairs and 
Mark sat on a short stack of crates filled with rock samples. A thick 
book rested on a table in the center of the room. Mark glanced at the 
title, turning his head slightly to do so. It was The Flying Carpet, by 
Richard Halliburton. There was a bookmark about halfway through the 
book.

The asteroid miner leaned forward. "What about George?" he asked.

Zip filled him in. Montezuma Vly paid close attention. His eyes never 
wavered from Zip's face as he spoke. When Zip was finished, Vly nodded.

"Mm hmm," he murmured. "This could be bad for George. I'll tell you 
where to find him. I expect that you'll be able to keep him out of the 
clutches of the space vultures. You've got an enemy to be reckoned with 
in this Zimbardo psychopath, but I believe you can handle him."

"You seem to know a lot about our recent exploits, Mr. Vly," said Joe, 
conversationally.

"I'm not the complete recluse people think, Mr. Taylor. People have a 
lot of wrong ideas about me. I don't want to be listed in the Register 
of Peoples, and I don't want people butting into my business or telling 
me how to live, but I keep up with the news. If I hadn't recognized 
you, you wouldn't have been allowed to land on my asteroid. You're not 
wearing Starman's red, you know."

"We're grateful to you, Mr. Vly," nodded Zip.

"May I ask-" began Mark, then hesitated.

"Yes, you may ask. Go on."

Mark turned his head toward the sphere. "The sphere..."

"Oh yes. It's pure crystal, all right."

The Starmen gasped. "Pure...crystal...?" stammered Mark. "Why, there 
can't be a larger one in the Solar System! It's priceless!"

"Next largest was in the Smithsonian Institution, a little more than 
twelve inches in diameter. This one's sixteen and three-quarters 
inches. Found it myself on Adamant-that's the parent asteroid from 
which this sliver I live on was busted off a few millennia ago." Mark 
knew he was referring to what he had called a "worthless chunk" before 
they landed.

Vly went on. "Shaped it myself in those old machines you saw coming in 
here. Had to redesign some of 'em to fit a crystal this size, but we 
did it."

"It looks flawless!" breathed Joe.

"Looks it, but isn't. Its flaws are its greatest treasure. Watch this; 
you haven't seen anything yet." Vly picked up a small cutting tool with 
a laser guide at the end. He turned off the lights and then pointed the 
laser at the crystal sphere. The beam struck the surface and then 
scattered throughout the interior of the globe, igniting sparks of 
spectacular glory. Mark could feel tears come into his eyes from the 
unearthly beauty the light created. Many dozens of flakes, invisible to 
the naked eye, were revealed when the laser beam pierced the 
near-perfect sphere. They exploded in glorious colors-gold, orange, 
deep red, flaming yellow, silver; even a few brilliant green, deep 
blue, and violet sparks traced across the inner world.

The Starmen were speechless. They couldn't take their eyes off the 
resplendent glory of the sphere under the laser light. "Beautiful, 
isn't it?" asked Vly, gently. There was no need to answer.

"Where do the colors come from?" asked Mark. "Laser light has only one 
wavelength, so it can't be refracting in there."

"The crystal's impurities are almost invisible to the unaided eye," 
answered Vly, "but the laser hits the impurities and causes secondary 
emissions of light of all sorts of color-the more impurities, the more 
colors. It lights up better than a fire opal."

As he moved the laser beam slowly around the globe, the interior lights 
changed-first one, then another "flaw" taking the light and surging 
into radiance.

All too soon, he switched off the laser and turned the room lights back 
on. It was almost as if a spell had been broken.

"C'mon," he said. "I'll show you just where George is on the chart." He 
moved back down the hall, the Starmen following. When they were back in 
the room they had first entered, Vly reached up into a recess where 
there were several rolled sheets of paper. "Move aside," he said 
quietly, pushing a reluctant koalang over and pulling out a large roll. 
He unrolled it over a rock polisher and gestured for the Starmen to 
take the corners. It was a map of a portion of the asteroid belt.

"Here's where we are," said Vly, pointing to a spot on the map, "and 
here's where George is." His finger swept across the map to where a 
tiny dot had been placed. "It's a mining operation of moderate size 
called Z25. He runs it there with a fair-sized crew-maybe a dozen men." 
There were equations, sketches, and notes scribbled all over the sheet.

"I'm sorry, Mr. Vly," said Mark, "but I don't follow you. I'm used to 
plotting coordinates and thinking in three dimensions."

"See these figures?" asked Vly. "They're your coordinates. It is a 
three-dimensional map, in a manner of speaking. If it weren't, I 
couldn't get around. I'll write down what you need. But you'll find 
George on that little plunk of a rock. He's been there several months 
now and won't be hard to find, once I point it out to you. I just spoke 
to him a few hours ago and I'll get ahold of him again and tell him 
you'll be coming." He began to write some notes down for Mark.

"Must take a lot of power to run your operation here, Mr. Vly," 
observed Mark while he waited for Montezuma to finish writing. "Don't 
you have to conserve energy?"

"Haven't had to conserve energy since I developed a new process for 
drawing energy directly from the sun."

"But out here the solar radiation is so weak. You can't get much energy 
from solar panels, no matter how efficient-certainly not enough to run 
your machines without some sort of supplement."

"I don't use solar panels any more, Mr. Seaton. I mine energy from the 
sun directly with an entirely new process. I can pull in and store 
about four gigawatts. Gives me all I need and plenty left over."

"Four gigawatts?"

"Four gigawatts. That's a four with nine zeroes after it."

Mark almost shouted. "I know how much it is! Mr. Vly! You amaze me! 
There's nothing like that anywhere else in the Solar System! Nobody has 
anything like that, nobody! Not even Starlight Enterprise! You could 
make a fortune if you sell your design!!"

"Really?" said Mr. Vly, lifting his eyebrows slightly, handing him the 
sheet with his notes on it. "Excuse me a moment while I write that 
down, so the next time I want to turn my whole life over to lawyers and 
businessmen I'll know just what to do."

"But, but..." Mark spluttered. Joe laughed and Zip smiled.

"Thank you, Mr. Vly," said Zip, extending his hand. "It has been a 
remarkable visit, and we appreciate very much your letting us drop in."

Montezuma shook Zip's hand. "Wait a minute, Starmen. Let me give you 
something to help you while away the long hours in space." He turned 
and rummaged through a box, then scanned a shelf behind him. After a 
moment he pulled out a gold disc in a flat, clear container.

"Take this," he said, handing it to Zip. "It's a recording of the 
entire works of Johann Sebastian Bach. That's more than 1,200 
compositions. The music is so complex that some of its mysteries 
weren't even discovered until the computer age. Lily made this disk. 
She's an expert in the music of the Renaissance. Does research all the 
time."

 "Lily?"

"Lily and I have been partners out here for over twenty years. Us and 
the koalangs."

Zip put the disk into his pocket. "Thank you, sir. Best wishes to you."

"You too. An occasional visit once in a while is welcome, especially 
when people respect my way of life. Most don't understand. I think you 
three do. Just protect George. He's a good friend, and they're hard to 
find."



About 56 hours later, the Vigilant Warrior came into the proximity of 
Z25. Joe eased the ship through a scattering of moderate-sized 
asteroids and then came into a space where there were relatively few 
chunks of stone and iron moving through space. On the far side of the 
open area was an asteroid nearly twenty miles long and half as wide.

"There it is," announced Joe. "Z25."

Zip gave a nod to Mark, and Mark opened communications.

"Vigilant Warrior calling Z25. We have arrived in your area and seek 
permission to land."

"You made good time, friends," came a voice instantly. "Come on in and 
welcome."

The Starmen had spoken to St. George once during their journey from 
Montezuma's Castle, but only briefly. The communications were 
encrypted, but even the encryption could be a tipoff to an enemy who 
might be listening in.

As they made their final approach, the Starmen had a good view of Z25's 
horizon near the time of local sunset. The surface was dark because of 
the oblique illumination, but several boulders caught the sunlight and 
appeared as bright sentinels on the landscape. The brightest of the 
boulders, just to the upper right of a deeply shadowed crater in the 
foreground, marked the landing area. A cluster of artificial structures 
was visible nearby, and several spaceships were parked in an informal 
array. A dome covered the buildings, and reflected the sun in a burst 
of brightness. Mark had a quick memory of dewdrops in the garden of his 
home on Earth when he was a child. He recalled thinking that each 
dewdrop held a small sun.

In moments the Starmen were sitting in George St. George's study. He 
was a man in his middle-fifties, of average height and weight, with a 
full head of wavy blond hair. It was obvious that he cut his own hair, 
but long practice had made him skilled at it. Though his eyes were 
ice-blue, he exuded warmth. He had a ready smile. The Starmen were 
sitting in a makeshift room under a temporary atmosphere dome on an 
isolated asteroid, but St. George's courtliness and genuine respect for 
his visitors made them feel as if they were in a manor house. On his 
desk lay a thick book with the title Commentary on the Letter to the 
Romans, and several sheets of paper and a pen were set beside it where 
he had obviously been doing some study.

"I hope you men won't mind waiting for refreshments. It's almost 
dinnertime and the crew will be coming up for a meal in about half an 
hour. Of course, you'll join us, won't you?"

"Thank you Mr. St. George," responded Zip. "We'd be pleased to meet 
your men and see your operation."

"Monty tells me you three are real ripstavers, and he doesn't say that 
very often about anybody. You must have impressed him!" St. George was 
full of smiles.

"May we sit down, Mr. St. George? Our business is rather urgent!" Zip 
continued.

"Of course, of course. Please forgive me! We don't get visitors of any 
kind out here and I'm just not used to entertaining. Please forgive 
me!" St. George rushed busily setting out chairs, bringing in two from 
a room next door. "And please call me George."

Once they were settled, Zip began to tell George about the pirates and 
Zimbardo's likely determination to find and eliminate the one man who 
knew where the pirates' asteroid could be found. Before he got too far 
into the story, George lifted a hand and smiled. "Yes, yes, I know," he 
said. "Monty told me all about it." 

The Starmen leaped out of their chairs, absolutely stunned. Before they 
had left Montezuma's Castle Zip had impressed upon Vly how vital it was 
for St. George's safety that they not communicate until his friend was 
safe. Zip had begged him to send just a quick, encrypted message that 
Z25 was to expect three visitors who had Vly's seal of approval-no more.

"George!" gasped Joe. "That message could have been intercepted by the 
pirates! They must be looking for you!"

"We told Vly not to communicate with you! It could mean your life!" 
continued Mark, suddenly heartsick with anxiety.

George chuckled. "Don't worry, Starmen! The pirates already tried to 
find me through Monty, but the greegles protected him, and the 
pirates'll never find me without cooperation from Monty-which they'll 
never get. There's really no need to worry. We're completely safe here. 
We'll have dinner, you'll stay here to sleep, I'll show you around the 
operation, and you can go back to Ceres."

The Starmen were speechless for a moment. Joe's eyes nervously scanned 
the room and Mark stared at George with his mouth agape. Then Zip spoke.

"What are greegles, George?"

George chuckled again. "You haven't heard of this 'asteroid miner's 
legend'? Most people think it's in a class with leprechauns and 
mermaids, the story of the greegles, but it's all true. The greegles 
are the inhabitants of the asteroids. Don't know if they're alive or 
not. They're made of metal-some kind of metal-or maybe they just wear a 
metal suit. They're about a foot high. Now, don't stare at me like 
that; you're looking thoroughly obflisticated, probably thinking I've 
been out in the vacuum too long, but I've seen them! They're little and 
they're old, very old, but they're powerful! No one can beat them! 
Usually no one ever sees them and they don't have any need to interfere 
with human beings. They don't mind it too much, though, if a solitary 
asteroid miner sees them once in a while."

"And wh-, what do they have to do with Montezuma?" asked Zip, keeping 
his voice steady.

"Why, a short time after you left the Castle, about five ships tried to 
land on the Castle by force-pirates, for sure. No doubt they wanted to 
force Monty to tell 'em where I am. But Monty knows how to contact the 
greegles. There's a lot of greegles on Adamant." George chuckled again.

"Those poor fellows-the pirates, that is! When the pirates told Monty 
they were going to land whether he wanted them to or not, why, he just 
called the greegles for help. They cut four of the ships into pieces in 
a matter of seconds, leaving the crew floating in their spacesuits. 
Then they grabbed them with some sort of invisible grappling beam or 
something and herded them toward the fifth ship. That ship gathered 
them in and took off."

Now George laughed out loud. "They got the message real fast! Go away 
and don't come back! And they scrammed! Never even set foot on 
Montezuma's Castle. Monty will make good use of the floating space junk 
the pirates left. Serves 'em right!"

Just then a gentle buzz sounded. "That's the call for dinner, friends. 
Come meet the others!"

Almost immediately another sound came through the communications 
system-an urgent clangor. St. George's face became taut and a look of 
surprise and anxiety came over his features.

"What's that?" asked Zip.

"It's the alarm," St. George whispered. "It's never sounded before." 
The alarm abruptly shut off and an excited, panic-stricken voice came 
through the intercom.

"Five ships approaching! Coming in fast! They're commanding all hands 
to come to the landing field and threatening to destroy the whole 
operation if we don't cooperate! They've already started to destroy the 
base!"


5: The Destruction of Z25

JOE dashed from the room and sped down the hallway to the control 
center of the mining base. Each strike of a laser beam colored the 
interior of the buildings with ruby red as the attackers' targets were 
vaporized, and the flashes were coming with disturbing frequency. He 
hurled himself into the tiny office where a frantic young man sat at a 
console.

"We're going to die!" cried the young man. Joe looked through the large 
window and saw five ships hovering over the base. Their laser cannons 
were rapidly destroying the outlying parts of the mining base. There 
were no defensive weapons. Joe glanced at the radar screen and his hair 
stood up as he saw that the screen showed nothing. To the surveillance 
system, the ships were invisible. The technician was babbling in 
abject, helpless fear, but Joe's pulse leaped when he realized that the 
frightened young man might be right. They could all be dead at any 
moment. The man fled the room crying.

Joe looked out the window again and saw that laser cannons had begun to 
destroy the ships. Through the horrifying, rapidly expanding concentric 
vapor shells, he saw the Vigilant Warrior crumpling into a heap. The 
other ships were either completely destroyed or well on the way.

"What is this? Who are they?" exclaimed Mark. He, Zip, and George had 
followed Joe to the control center and were watching the laser beams 
sweep the landing field. The ships were being indiscriminately reduced 
to molten slag.

"Their laser beams are immensely powerful, and they're operating at 
full capacity," observed Zip, grimly. Just then the lights went out and 
every apparatus in the control center went dark.

"They found and destroyed the power plant," whispered George, the 
tenseness evident in his voice. "But they're not touching the inhabited 
parts of the base."

Suddenly Zip turned to their host. "George!" he said urgently. "Do any 
of your crew know that we are Starmen?" George turned a distracted face 
to Zip and stared as if he wasn't comprehending what Zip had said.

"Do any of your crew know that we are Starmen?" Zip repeated carefully.

"I-I don't know. I didn't tell anybody, I think, but I didn't keep it a 
secret."

"Look! Gather them all together and tell them not to say anything about 
us to these invaders! Our safety may depend on it, as well as any 
chance we all have of eventually escaping!"

"Ah-all right," George stammered.

Since the power was out, there was no way to make an announcement 
through the communication system, but the rest of the crew was 
assembling anyway. The refectory was located not far from the control 
center and the men were coming together there, so the Starmen and 
George went to join them.

In a moment, there were about a dozen men in the room. Some sat on the 
benches, others stood. There was palpable fear in the room, as if they 
knew that sudden, violent death was near.

Zip asked George, "Is this everyone?" George took a quick glance around 
the room.

"I, I think so, yes."

Zip took charge. "Men, listen to me. We're about to be taken captive. I 
don't think anything worse will happen to us, or it would have happened 
by now. My friends and I have come to visit Sabbath George. Just got 
here from Ceres and sure didn't expect this!"

George took over. He was showing more confidence now. Alone of the Z25 
crew, he had never shown fear, just shock. "We'll just wait right here, 
men, and see what's next. I don't know who these attackers are or what 
they want, but don't volunteer any information of any kind. You hear 
me? No information of any kind, beyond the most basic."

The men were silent and collapsed in on themselves. They were afraid, 
but the panic seemed to have diminished somewhat. Outside, the five 
ships had landed and about twenty space-suited men had emerged. With 
weapons in hand, they were approaching the dome. The leader gestured to 
several of them, who spread out around the dome. The others remained at 
the main airlock and waited. Their feet were spread in an attitude of 
defiant power.

"They want the airlock open, Mr. St. George," said the young man who 
had fled from the control center. His voice was dry and squeaky.

George said, "Can't open it. No controls. Those fools destroyed the 
power center. If they're coming in, you'll have to get your spacesuits 
on because the atmosphere is going to disappear. Make it quick before 
they blow the airlock by force." The men scattered. George and the 
Starmen went to the airlock and looked at the invaders from the inside 
of the dome. George said to the Starmen, "Of course, there's a backup 
power system, but I don't feel a compelling need to make it any easier 
for these strangers."

When the leader saw that there were people coming, he kicked the 
airlock savagely and aimed his weapon at the mechanism. As was 
customary, the helmets were lined up on a rack on shelves just inside 
the airlock. George put on his helmet and the Starmen put on theirs. 
The rest of the mining crew began to show up with their suits on and 
found their helmets. When all were suited up and the intercoms were on, 
George told the mining crew to stand aside. Then he told the leader of 
the invaders that he could enter.

The man fired a stupendously powerful beam at the airlock that melted 
it like ice in a furnace. In seconds, the air inside the dome whooshed 
out into the vacuum of space.

"Get into the ship," growled the leader of the invaders, indicating the 
closest of the five spaceships. "No one is going to be hurt, but I'm 
not guaranteeing that that situation will last. I'm not a patient man 
and I don't like wasting time."

"What about our belongings?" asked George.

"You won't need them. Move to the ship. Now." The voice was even and 
quiet but as hard as iron. Zip started the procession. He slumped down 
as if completely disheartened and walked like a prisoner, his eyes 
pointed to the ground. The others followed. The invaders kept them 
surrounded as they walked the short distance to the pilot ship. Several 
invaders entered first and then kept watch on the prisoners as they 
ascended the ladder into the staging area. Once the asteroid miners 
were aboard, the other invaders entered their ships.

When the door was sealed, the invaders removed their helmets. The 
miners followed suit. The leader took a quick inventory of the 
prisoners, and then settled his gaze on George.

"You are George St. George," he said in a tone that knew he was stating 
a fact. "My name is Lather. You and your men are now prisoners of 
Lurton Zimbardo. I am taking you to him. As long as I've got you, I 
don't care about anything or anyone else. Don't make any trouble and I 
won't see any need to put anyone off the ship. It doesn't make any 
difference to me whether any of your men is in deep space or my guest 
room, but it might make a difference to you-and them."

Without turning his head, Lather addressed one of his crew. "Blaze, see 
that this base is melted into the bedrock."

"Yes sir," said the man addressed and left the room.

Lather addressed another of his crew. "Spelford, escort the prisoners 
to their quarters."

Spelford lifted his weapon and nodded in the direction they were to go. 
The prisoners went, under the guard of several armed men.

They were taken to a room set up to accommodate up to twenty 
passengers. There were niches with beds in them, and couches for use 
during acceleration.

"Prepare for lift-off," ordered Spelford. The prisoners sat down and 
strapped themselves in. Spelford and his men left, locking the door 
behind them. In a moment the warning signal for lift-off was given. The 
ship raised itself gently from the surface of the asteroid. The fierce 
glare of destructive laser strikes came through the quartz window for 
nearly a minute, and the prisoners knew that the living quarters of Z25 
were being systematically destroyed.

"They're ramsquaddling the whole operation," said Sabbath George in a 
voice that sounded almost matter-of-fact. "Never had anything like this 
happen before. This is a first."

When the glow ceased, the ships accelerated. The Starmen and their 
companions felt themselves pressed into the chairs.



The five invisible ships had been gone for over an hour, but the man in 
the shadow still did not move. He was on a neighboring chunk of 
floating iron, just a mile or two in diameter with a very slow 
rotation. St. George's asteroid would vanish below his horizon in a few 
minutes. The man pulled the telescope up to his face plate once again 
and scanned the area that had been the base on Z25. There had been no 
movement of any kind since the ships had rayed the site. He took a few 
more pictures for his files. The metal and quartz plating-all signs of 
human presence-had been completely destroyed, melted into the rock of 
the asteroid. The brilliant orange of superheated rock had quickly 
cooled in the near-absolute zero of airless space.

"Guess it's okay to go now," he thought. "Those space buzzards are not 
detail men-just grab and destroy without even looking around. Lucky for 
me."

The man went over to a small asteroid cruiser, built for speed in 
touring the Asteroid Belt. Stepping in, he sealed the airlock and 
pulled out a small recorder. He tuned in a complicated code and began 
to speak.

"Steve Cliff, reporting in to Oritz Konig on Mars Base." Steve went on 
to give the date, time, and location, and a brief but thorough report 
of what he had seen, from the time the Starmen landed on Z25 to the 
time the pirates' five ships had disappeared. He added to the file the 
pictures he had taken, and concluded, "Now returning to Yellow City. If 
you have anything else you'd like me to do, Oritz, contact me there. I 
don't have to tell you I'm pretty fond o' those boys and I was more'n 
delighted to keep an eye on 'em for you on this trip. Sorry this report 
isn't any better. I'll stop in and see Sim before I continue my trip 
back to Earth, just in case you leave a message for me there."

Having finished the recording, he put it into a small projectile with 
an automatic timer to release and send the message in three hours. Then 
he lifted off the small asteroid and headed toward Ceres. A few minutes 
after liftoff, he fired the projectile. When it sent its message, Steve 
Cliff would be far away and no one could trace the message back to his 
ship. On top of that, the message was encrypted and designed to travel 
on the microwaves similar to those in the background of space. It was 
highly unlikely that this message would make anyone curious. After the 
message had been sent, the projectile would break down into its 
component parts and scatter them into the infinity of space.



The ships had stopped accelerating and the prisoners could talk easily.

"You don't seem too upset, George," suggested Mark.

"Naw," said George. "'Course I'm sorry to lose my stuff back there, and 
I'm sorry for the men, but most of our stuff is somewhere else. This 
was a temporary base and the mine wasn't producing too well anyway. 
Hardly worth our time. Besides, I've learned to be content just about 
wherever I am. I've been around the asteroids a lot and I've learned to 
depend on a Resource outside myself whatever the circumstances. I know 
what it is to be brought low, and I know what it is to have plenty. 
I've been thoroughly initiated into the human lot with all its ups and 
downs-fullness and hunger, plenty and want. Makes little difference to 
me. Wherever I am, whatever happens, I'm confident. And I'm a man of 
prayer."

"I'm sure sorry about your friend Montezuma," said Zip sympathetically.

"What do you mean?"

"Why, these ships must be the same five that attacked him. They 
couldn't have found you without getting the information from Vly. So 
it's a good guess that they destroyed his base the way they did yours."

"Nothing of the sort!" said St. George heatedly. "I told you that those 
ships were defeated and their crew sent back to wherever they came from 
with their tail between their legs!"

"But this story about the 'greegles'-" contributed Joe.

"The greegles sliced those ships up like salami!" insisted St. George. 
"These ships we're on are a different lot! And besides, Monty would 
never have told anybody how to find me-not by force or threat, anyway!"

"We're sorry, George," apologized Zip. "I didn't mean to upset you or 
cast any doubt on Montezuma Vly. You're right-he's not the type to give 
in to any threat. I must be mistaken."

"You're forgiven," said St. George. He went off to see how his men were 
doing.

"Zip!" whispered Joe urgently. "You don't really believe that story 
about the 'greegles.' These have to be the same ships!"

"I think it's more important not to upset George. We don't know the 
whole story."

"But greegles!"

"What about the greegles?" asked Mark, with a slight edge of 
defensiveness in his tone. "Did it seem to either of you that Vly would 
betray a friend to save himself? And did you see any sign of advanced 
weaponry at Montezuma's Castle?"

"What are you saying, Mark?" asked Joe.

"I'm saying that we shouldn't discount an old tale just because it 
sounds foolish or superstitious. George knew we were coming. He 
couldn't have known unless Montezuma sent him a message, even though we 
warned him against doing so. If he sent George a message, he wasn't 
taken over by the pirates. These aren't the same ships. These are 
another part of Zimbardo's fleet sent out to find George St. George. 
They must have tracked him down through the message Vly sent-not 
because they landed on the Castle and threatened him."

Zip looked deeply thoughtful. Joe looked incredulous.

"Mark, you can't be serious!"

"It's not a matter of being serious or not, Joe; it's a matter of being 
open-minded."

"George described it himself! He's been out in the vacuum too long."

"I don't think George strikes me as an unbalanced man. Unusual, for 
sure. But not unbalanced. Not unbalanced at all." Mark looked over his 
shoulder. George had his arms around two of his men and was talking to 
them in a low voice. The rest of them were gathered around, paying 
close attention to what he was saying. Already the atmosphere was one 
of peace. No one seemed afraid now.

Through the window beyond, a portion of the vast arm of the Milky Way 
spread out in its eternal beauty. The Starmen were silently wondering 
the same things: How long would it be before they met Lurton Zimbardo? 
Would he recognize them? Why did he want St. George alive?


6: Battle Lines

THE PIRATES' ASTEROID swung in a smooth, private orbit about a thousand 
miles beyond the farthest extremity of the Asteroid Belt. Lurton 
Zimbardo was in his private sanctum, a well-equipped workroom with 
precision astronomical equipment, sky charts, and an enormous inventory 
of computer files. As he turned his telescanner toward the Inner 
Planets, he saw the spread of the Belt before him.

Countless celestial bodies moved in an incredibly slow pattern like a 
stately dance. Reflected sunlight glinted from oblique surfaces into 
the light-gathering lenses of the telescanner. When the occasional 
crystalline surface or frozen lake on a passing asteroid caught the 
radiance just right, an intense but transitory sparkling brilliance was 
generated, and created a pattern of astonishing beauty on the scanner's 
computer screen.

Zimbardo entered a few more bits of data into the criteria of his 
search pattern and then said, "Enter." Within seconds several asteroids 
were marked in his files. He brought their profiles up one by one.

M253.
SHAPE: OBLONG.
MAXIMUM LENGTH: 0.683 MILES.
MAXIMUM WIDTH: 0.307 MILES.
COMPOSITION: 90.568% IRON, 6.443% TIN, 0.752%
ICE, 2.237% TRACE ELEMENTS; CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.

Other information was provided, including the asteroid's precise 
location and its speed of motion and rotation. Zimbardo hesitated a 
moment, then said, "Delete." He went on to the next entry.

M3366.
SHAPE: ALMOST PERFECT SPHERE; VARIATION <5%.
MEAN DIAMETER, 0.057 MILES.

The other information was provided. Zimbardo smiled. "Ah-nearly solid 
iron and about 100 yards exactly!" he thought to himself. "That makes 
five." He told the computer to save that file, then opened the intercom.

"Gene," he said.

"Yes sir," came the immediate response.

"Contact Mr. Crass and tell him I want M3366."

"Right away, sir." 

"Then call the five lieutenants up to my study at once, please. Get 
Kimball, Lorry, and Jenner also. Once you've called them, come up 
yourself." Gene nodded and activated the personal contact codes of the 
men Zimbardo wanted to see.

A quarter of an hour later, the ten men were in the lounge in 
Zimbardo's quarters. He was playing host, and pouring out a dark golden 
sherry wine into luxurious spun glass goblets.

One of the men lifted up the goblet so the illumination reflected from 
it, highlighting subtle rainbow whorls in the surface. He swirled his 
wine before he sipped it.

"Very nice, Lurton, and the glass here is pretty top stuff."

"The wine came from Earth but the glassware came with the asteroid, 
Jeff. This place has so much in it that I haven't found a hundredth of 
what it contains, but all of it is high quality."

The men relaxed in the comfortable chairs. The chairs automatically 
adjusted to the body weight and shape of whoever sat in them. Soft, 
almost imperceptible music was playing in the background. A light 
fragrance in the air eased tensions and sharpened minds for thought. 
Zimbardo had nothing to do with creating this atmosphere-these features 
came on automatically whenever anyone entered the room.

"Petty soft life you got here, Zimbardo," sighed the man named Lorry, 
easing himself down into his chair. "I'm not used to this kind of 
comfort."

"No, Lorry, I guess not. You don't find too many easy chairs aboard the 
kind of ships you pilot when you're transporting the Banjoman's flilox 
to his customers in the Belt. But when our plan succeeds, you'll be 
able to buy all the soft chairs you want. Let's get down to business."

Zimbardo stood before the assembled company. Behind him, taking up most 
of the wall, was a map of a large portion of Mars. "As I was saying 
when we met in the hangar assembly room yesterday, it is simply a 
matter of choosing an appropriate target to convince them we have the 
capability. What should our target be? Well here, gentlemen, are the 
five major atmospheric generation plants on Mars." He turned to the map 
and pointed out five places-two in the northern hemisphere, two near 
the equator, and one in the southern hemisphere. "Each is valued at two 
billion solars and would take several years to replace. The damage 
won't bankrupt the government, but the expense is far from negligible! 
Even more importantly, when they are destroyed, Starlight Enterprise's 
terraformation project will suffer a severe setback-possibly as much as 
three to four years. Now, data gathered from analysis has shown that 
these plants can be removed very easily by the proposal we have 
suggested. Mr. Crass, do you have anything to add?"

"No, Mr. Zimbardo. I've checked the specs on the asteroids you've 
selected and I've checked progress with what Stubb is doing. If he has 
the propulsion units ready in ten days, we can deliver our first 
package to Mars in precisely two weeks."

A muscular man in short sleeves spoke up. Since no one else wore short 
sleeves, everyone suspected that he wore his sleeves short to show off 
his biceps. "Lurton-what about the ships that went to interrogate Vly? 
We know five took off, and yesterday I only saw one return. No one else 
wants to ask about it, but I'm asking. If I'm going to risk my men and 
my ships on this venture of yours, I want to know what's involved."

As the man was speaking, Gene lowered his head and kept his eyes on the 
floor.

"All right, Captain Kimball. It's a fair question. You're right. Five 
went out and only one returned. None of the men was lost-the returning 
ship brought them all back. But four of the ships were destroyed before 
they could land on Montezuma's Castle." Zimbardo's five lieutenants 
were already aware of the setback. The visitors, Jeff Jenner and Lorry, 
were stunned. Kimball grunted, as if a suspicion had been confirmed.

"Well?" he pressed, his face hard and demanding.

"Gene," said Zimbardo, turning away. He didn't like to deliver news of 
defeat.

"The pilots of the ships tell essentially the same story," began Gene. 
"They came directly to Montezuma's asteroid, opened communications, and 
insisted that they were going to land. There was no response. But 
within seconds some kind of energy beam came forth from Adamant, the 
neighboring asteroid, and sliced the four ships into small sections. It 
was clear that there was no intention to kill any personnel-only to 
destroy the ships. The crews were left floating in space. Forces of 
some kind we are not familiar with pulled them into the proximity of 
the remaining ship, where they were taken aboard. Clearly, against 
forces like that we are helpless. The ship returned immediately. The 
men are badly shaken."

Kimball grunted again. "And Vly?"

Zimbardo answered. "They never talked to him. But we don't need him. A 
short time after this incident he radioed to St. George and we 
intercepted the beam. We'd been looking for it. Vly probably assumed 
that with the destruction of our landing party he was safe and so was 
St. George. But his call went directly to asteroid Z25. It was 
encrypted so we couldn't read it, but we didn't have to know what the 
message was to know where it went. Our other five ships were two days 
away from the location. They went directly there and picked up all the 
miners, including St. George, in a very neat operation."

The intercom buzzed. "Mr. Zimbardo?"

"Yes, what is it?" he responded with obvious irritation.

"Sorry to bother you, sir, but you asked to be informed as soon as the 
ships returned. The Silver Cloud and its four companion ships are 
expected to dock in approximately 45 minutes."

"Very good!" Zimbardo's initial irritation was instantly dispelled. 
"Tell Mr. Lather to put the prisoners into the cell block. I will deal 
with them later." The intercom went off and Zimbardo turned back to the 
gathering. "As you heard, St. George will be on the asteroid within the 
hour."

There were nods around the table. Many questions were asked about the 
destruction of the four ships near Montezuma's Castle, but there were 
no answers. The issue was left unresolved; Zimbardo, however, was not 
saying everything he suspected. He was frightened, but determined that 
no one would know it. He had heard of the legend of the greegles and 
took it more seriously than anyone would ever suspect.



Richard Starlight's spacious office was located near the top of the 
highest tower on the Moon, the giant SE headquarters building located 
forty miles north of Amundsen City. Accessible only by two express 
elevators, his office covered nearly an entire floor of the tower-more 
than 3,000 square feet. Its walls were treated glass, harder than any 
metal alloy and impervious to the constant rain of micro-meteorites, 
with clarity which was nearly perfect. The office was the equivalent of 
121 stories above ground level, and only an observation deck and 
various antennae were above it. The lunar landscape was visible for 
miles in every direction. The pass which marked the entrance to the 
Field of Obsolescence was barely visible ten miles away just a little 
east of north.

What he called his "office" was really a combination laboratory, 
resource library, work and communications center, and lounge. In one 
corner was a huge table, made of artificial material but, apart from 
chemical analysis, not distinguishable from highly polished mahogany. 
Its chairs matched its reflective sheen. Table and chairs rested on an 
intricately patterned carpet that measured at least twenty by 
twenty-five feet. Patterns in cerulean blue, silver, and gray, with 
flecks of green and violet beautifully complemented the lunar gray 
visible through the windows. Not far from the table was an immense, 
detailed globe of the Earth, about four feet in diameter and perfectly 
balanced. Equally detailed globes of the Moon and Mars on the same 
scale were nearby. In another corner were globes of Mercury and Venus 
and a few other celestial bodies.

"I'm sorry to put an end to the festivities this way, gentlemen," said 
Richard Starlight to the assembly. Around the table were the President 
of the United States and three of his advisors, among whom were 
Commander John Lewis of Space Command. Richard's second-in-command, 
John "Rock" Rwakatare, head engineer of the Advanced Design Department 
of SE was also present, as were Allen Foster, Keith Seaton, and Charlie 
Taylor, the fathers of the three Starmen. Robert Nolan, founder of 
Nolan Mining Enterprises and a friend and colleague of Richard 
Starlight, and his second-in-command Beowulf Denn filled out the number.

On two viewscreens were stationary images of Oritz Konig on Mars, and 
Steve Cliff en route to the Moon from the Asteroid Belt. The time delay 
for Konig was a little more than fifteen minutes, and for Cliff was 
about 22 minutes, so they could not actively participate in the 
discussion. Both, however, had vital reports to make and Richard was 
prepared to present them by videotape at the right time.

Richard continued. "We all expected that our three Starmen would be 
back with us in two days for the Reception of Honor. That will have to 
be postponed. Most of you know at least something of the reason why, 
but this urgent meeting was called to make sure that everyone is 
brought up to date and, more importantly, to take counsel on a course 
of action."

Richard summed up what had been learned about the pirates after the 
liberation of Mars up to the point of the Starmen's departure from 
Oritz Konig's office.

"Our conclusion is that, although we have 542 men in custody in Eagle 
City, including their captain Troy Putnam, several dozen pirates are 
still free. It would have taken a large facility to prepare the ships 
and house the men used in the assault on Mars, and it is virtually 
certain that a sufficient force for maintaining this operation was left 
at their base. We believe that this was probably a minimal number, but 
there may have been pirates in other locations in the Asteroid Belt or 
elsewhere. Moreover, as you know, one ship managed to escape from Mars 
during the liberation. Oritz Konig, now on special assignment at Mars 
Base, will make a report on what we've learned about Putnam's chief 
assistant, Lurton Zimbardo."

By pre-recorded videotape, SE's Chief of Security presented a brief 
report, similar to that which he had given to the Starmen.

At its conclusion, Richard continued. "Since the ship that escaped 
headed recklessly at its highest velocity toward a certain area of the 
Belt, we can reasonably assume that the pirates' base is situated on an 
asteroid not far from that area."

Nolan asked, "Why were the ships from Space Command not able to find 
this asteroid, or any trace of the pirates?" Robert Nolan was a man of 
early middle age, slight of build, with thinning hair. He was noted for 
his analytical mind and incisive decisions. His hard work over a 
twenty-year span had built a small company into an influential 
corporation, and his achievements had brought him respect throughout 
the Inner Planetary system.

"This is what we are gathered here to reveal," Richard answered. "I'm 
afraid the news is quite disturbing. Steve Cliff will give us his 
report."

By videotape, Steve Cliff reported what he had seen in the area of Z25. 
He concluded, "So it is obvious that the pirates have a very effective 
radar bender. Their ships are, in effect, invisible to our standard 
radar detection systems." 

When Steve's report was over, Richard added, "Steve Cliff was immensely 
helpful when we sent the two Starmen to Mars. He did us another favor 
by following them as far as Z25 when he preferred to return to Earth. 
He is on his way back to Earth now. Oritz asked him to keep an eye on 
the Starmen for their own safety, and as you can tell from his report 
it was a very good thing indeed that he did!"

The men at the table looked grim. The fathers of the Starmen wore 
especially troubled expressions.

"Our battle with the pirates is not yet over, I'm afraid," continued 
Richard Starlight. "Their radar bender is nearly perfect. The notion of 
developing a technique that makes an object invisible to radar is not 
new, of course, but in spite of several decades of effort even 
Starlight Enterprise has not been able to achieve the high level of 
effectiveness Zimbardo's men have available to them. From these 
observations we draw two disquieting conclusions.

"First, we learned from the pirates we captured on Mars that their base 
is probably invisible to radar; it can't be seen with normal methods. 
It's likely that the pirates have outfitted all their ships with the 
device that makes objects invisible to radar, not just the five Steve 
Cliff observed. If so, their ships can be anywhere without the 
possibility of any of our bases or centers of civilization being aware 
of them until they become visible to the eye. Since all our computers 
track ships and contribute toward strategic battle decisions based on 
radar data, it is almost impossible to guard against such pirate raids 
as Zimbardo's men are now able to carry out-and have already done on 
Z25." Richard sighed.

"Second, and most alarming of all, it is almost impossible for the 
pirates to have invented the radar bender on their own. We had surmised 
this shortly after our first conversations with the captive pirates on 
Mars, but since then our computer has estimated the chance that they 
did so to be approximately 0.0001%. That kind of technology is beyond 
any earthly scientific capability. It is much more likely that they got 
it from some alien civilization-a highly advanced alien civilization.

"We don't have any solid information other than that, so we can only 
guess what level of connection there may be between any such 
hypothetical civilization and the pirates. At any rate, where the radar 
bender came from, other devices might come too-military devices against 
which Earth has no defense. And we have no idea when we will learn the 
pirates' next move, and we don't know where the Starmen are now."

The room was silent. Everyone was stunned. When Mars was liberated they 
had thought that the conflict was at an end. Now they saw that their 
situation was more desperate than they thought possible.

After a moment, Robert Nolan spoke up. His eyes were wide and his voice 
was high-pitched. "Wh-, what can we do? Can't we find these pirates? 
Can't we just send out ships and comb the entire area of the Belt where 
they disappeared? Can't we...?"

Keith Seaton broke in. "Robert, believe me, if there were anything we 
could do, anything we could think of that wouldn't be the equivalent of 
running around in circles, we'd be doing it! The Starmen are our sons! 
Richard informed us last night that they were captured, and we've done 
just about nothing else but try to think of something we can do."

Allen Foster joined in. His voice was level and determined, clearly 
being controlled with supreme effort. "It is impossible to do a random 
search of the Asteroid Belt-even if we restrict our search to the 
section where the hidden base must lie. We've done the math. We may as 
well be looking for a black marble hidden at night anywhere in North 
America."

"And invisible ships!" Nolan gasped. "The Solar System has no defense 
against anything like that. Why, they could come in anywhere and 
invade! They'd be invincible! We couldn't even see what hit us!"

Commander Lewis spoke up. "And an alien civilization! They could have 
science beyond what we can imagine. Earth doesn't stand a chance 
against an enemy like that!" The men were scared.

After a moment when no one else addressed the gathering, the President 
spoke. "Our position is essentially the same as it was when Mars was 
still in the control of the pirates. Our strength does not lie in 
superior science or in superior numbers. Troy Putnam recently placed 
his trust in superior strength and technology; the unsoundness of such 
a hope is shown by his fall. David fought Goliath and won because his 
trust was in the right place. Zimbardo might have weapons and other 
technology of which we cannot even conceive and he might do great 
damage, but he is still in the wrong. Evil might have its day, but in 
the end it will always fall; the forces of light will overcome it as it 
decays from within. With that faith and that assurance, we can make our 
plans. Does anyone have a suggestion as to how we can meet this crisis?"

Allen Foster spoke again. "There are two issues here: finding and 
rescuing the Starmen and their companions, and defending our 
civilization from the pirates. For the first, well, we're very hopeful 
that they are still alive because they were taken aboard the pirates' 
ship before the base on Z25 was destroyed. They are resourceful young 
men-they are Starmen, after all.

"For the second, any solution I'm afraid will be long-term. We'll have 
to develop a detector that uses a process other than radar-perhaps 
something based on gravity or light absorption. But you can appreciate 
the obvious fact, I'm sure, that inventing such machinery will probably 
take a very long time. No, I think that our course now must be entirely 
defensive. We are, at least, forewarned. But I'm sure that the pirates 
will be making the next move before we can do anything about it." 


7: Prisoners on the Pirates' Asteroid

"WHAT'S the word for 'walk'?" asked Mark.

"Gentrikian," answered Zip automatically.

"That makes forty-seven points for you," said Joe. "I need fifteen more 
just to catch up. C'mon Mark, give me an easy one-help me out."

"Okay. Do you want English to Titanian or Titanian to English?"

"Titanian to English. That's easier."

"K'intrishian."

 Joe thought for a moment. Languages seemed to come easily to Mark-he 
could absorb concepts and find mental hooks to hang them on with no 
noticeable effort at all. Joe found languages far more difficult. He 
preferred engine diagrams and flow charts.

"I don't know!" The lean pilot blasted, exasperated. The Starmen, like 
the crew from Z25, were passing time as they entered the third day of 
their captivity aboard the Silver Cloud. Mark was teaching Zip and Joe 
some of the Titanian vocabulary he'd been working on for two years.

"This one should be easy for you, Joe, even if it isn't 'sleep' or 
'eat.' The answer is just about all we've been able to do on this trip 
so far."

"Well, sleeping and eating is all we've done!"

"'K'intrishian' means 'wait.'"

Joe grinned. "We've certainly been doing a lot of that on this outing! 
The past couple of weeks have seemed about pointless! Just about all 
we've been doing is bouncing from place to place! We blasted off from 
Eagle City to the Asteroid Belt and then went right back to Mars. Then 
back to Ceres in the Asteroid Belt. Then to Montezuma's Castle and on 
to Z25, and we complete our mission just in time to get captured by the 
enemy! Now we're being taken to this 'secret asteroid' where Lurton 
Zimbardo has his base and I'll bet anything we're going right back to 
where we started-where we lost track of that ship we were chasing into 
the Belt!"

An announcement came through the intercom. "Prepare for deceleration in 
two minutes."

The Starmen looked at one another, then at the crew of Z25. St. George 
was already walking toward his acceleration couch. Each of them could 
feel his heart suddenly beating a little faster. They strapped 
themselves into their couches. Zip looked out of the window but saw 
nothing out of the ordinary.

A moment later, the rockets on the Silver Cloud ignited and the ship 
began to slow. About half an hour later, the had slowed to a crawl and 
the view of the stars disappeared. It became apparent to the prisoners 
that they had entered a tunnel. After a few seconds, the ship touched 
down and secured itself to the landing pad. The prisoners waited. No 
one spoke.

Minutes passed, then the door to their quarters opened. Spelford stood 
in the opening, with several other men behind him. All were armed.

"Time to go," Spelford announced. The prisoners were escorted single 
file through the ship and down the access ladder to the floor of the 
landing pad. They were under observation at all times by armed men in 
front of them and behind.

Joe reached the bottom of the ladder and turned to look around. To his 
right was an enormous clear wall which sealed off the landing area from 
the immense tunnel through which the ships had come. In front of him 
and to his left was a complex of charcoal-dark structures, lined with 
silver trim and glinting with many panels of glass. The entire area was 
powerfully lit by dozens of sources hundreds of feet above him. He was 
both impressed and intimidated at the same time.

As soon as the prisoners had debarked from the Silver Cloud, Spelford 
began giving orders.

"Move. This way. Stay in single file."

The line crossed the field and passed through a second airlock. Leaving 
the field behind, they entered a large manufacturing area. Several 
dozen men were working feverishly at massive tables and work centers. 
Sparks from welding areas were visible in the back parts of the area. 
Flashing lights from many desks lit up the faces of men with intent 
gazes, whose attention was fixed on close work on numerous small 
circuit boards. A few workers glanced curiously at the line of 
prisoners, but they didn't waste time on a thorough investigation of 
the newcomers.

Spelford and his detail escorted the prisoners through an immense 
double door, down a wide passageway, and into a large elevator. The 
elevator could accommodate fifty men easily. When all were inside, 
Spelford tapped a number into the control pad and the elevator began to 
descend. It stopped in seconds and the door opened into an area where 
several corridors came together. Two small elevator doors flanked the 
one from which the men emerged. The procession entered a dimly-lit 
corridor that extended for about a hundred yards. Many doors were set 
into the walls, but none was open.

Spelford led the way down the corridor. After covering about two-thirds 
of the distance, he stopped and slid open a plain, dark portal set into 
the right side of the passage. He glanced into the room beyond, then 
stepped back and said, "In here." The prisoners entered, and the door 
closed behind the last one.

George St. George broke the silence. "We're not going to be able to 
absquatulate from these pirate yaps very easily, that's for sure. Guess 
we'll have to make the most of our stay here."

Zip strode into the center of the room and looked around. Indirect 
lighting provided plenty of illumination. "Clearly a dormitory of some 
sort," he observed to no one in particular. Bunk-style beds were spaced 
around the walls. Through another door was a resting area with tables 
and chairs. In another room were washing facilities. On one side of the 
main room was a large window which overlooked the landing area and 
primary work center of the asteroid.

Joe and Mark strode over to the window and looked out. "The rotation of 
the asteroid provides the equivalent of gravity," observed Joe. "About 
what we're used to on the Moon-about one-sixth Earth. What do you 
think, Mark?"

"Feels like a little less to me," answered Mark. "We'll have to step up 
our exercises if we're going to maintain muscle tone."

"Nothing fancy, but everything we need," said one of St. George's men 
after a quick look around the rooms.

"For a long stay, maybe," said another.

"'K'intrishian' means 'wait,' if I remember correctly, Mark," said Joe.

"That's thirty-three points for you," responded the tall Starman.



Time passed. From the window in the wall of the asteroid, the three 
Starmen looked down and saw a buzz of activity. About two dozen ships 
were docked on the field, and workers were still hovering around tables 
in the work center.

"Here comes another one," said Joe, as a spacecraft passed into view 
from the large tunnel that led to the outside.

"How many is that since we've been here?" asked Mark. "Six?"

"Yes, six in less than twenty-four hours," stated Zip.

The Starmen chafed under the burden of their powerlessness. They had 
already scoured the rooms carefully and found no sign of weakness they 
could exploit. Their food was delivered through an automated shaft that 
they could find no way of using as an escape route. They had neither 
seen nor spoken to anyone since Spelford had brought them to their 
prison.

Once again Zip looked out the window. "This place is amazing! This 
could not have been anticipated by anyone! It must have been quite a 
shock when you found this asteroid, George."

"Oh yes, I was awestruck, completely, absolutely electrified! Imagine 
stepping into a remnant of an astounding civilization like this. When I 
found it, it was abandoned. It seemed as if no one had been in it for 
probably thousands of years."

"Tell us everything you know about this place," ordered Zip, looking 
intently at the asteroid miner and drawing him over to the nearest 
table. Zip gently eased the miner into a chair, then turned another 
chair around and sat in it, folding his arms over its back and facing 
George. The asteroid miner told the Starmen the story of his discovery 
of the asteroid and how Troy Putnam had learned about it. They had 
already heard a brief version of the story from Oritz Konig back at 
Mars Base.

"Of course, I didn't know this Putnam was a bad egg at the time. He 
just seemed like a friendly, curious spaceman to me."

"What about the asteroid?" pressed Joe. "What have you figured out 
about the race that built it?"

"As I said, the asteroid was abandoned when I ran across it, but 
whoever built it couldn't have been too different from us. Same body 
type, same size, that's obvious. Look around you-beds, chairs, 
everything, just the way we'd make them. Their language was quite 
different, though. Took me a long time to learn how to use some of 
their stuff."

"How'd you learn your way around here?"

"When I first came upon the asteroid, the airlock was open. A huge 
orifice, made for spaceships, as you can tell. I came through and 
landed. Went through one of the airlocks into the building portion 
here, where we are now, and just explored. Trial and error. It's not 
too difficult to get the basics down-opening and closing doors, and all 
that. Then figuring out the right mix of atmosphere. I had plenty of 
time. I got access to the first four or five stories, but I'm pretty 
certain the place is much bigger than that. At first, I couldn't get 
any further than the first few stories, but after a while I found my 
way around a couple of deeper sections."

"And then?"

"What do you mean, 'and then'? I got bored with it and moved on. I'm a 
miner, not an explorer or a settler or a scientist. There's nothing 
here but iron. I told a few people about it but nobody much believed me 
or cared until this Troy Putnam fellow I met in Yellow City. He's the 
only person who got excited about it, so when he asked me to bring him 
here, I did it, as I said. Why not? He paid my expenses for the trip, 
and a little more besides for my time. He was impressed with the place, 
as was I. Then I went looking for uranium and he went back to Ceres. 
Never saw him again."

Zip pursed his lips, and his brow furrowed under his red hair-a common 
expression for the leader of the Starman team. "This has to explain why 
Zimbardo was looking for you," he said. "No one outside the pirates 
knows as much as you about his asteroid. That didn't seem to bother 
Troy Putnam, but Zimbardo must consider you a threat. But I can't 
understand why he has taken us prisoner. Zimbardo has no heart of mercy 
whatever. I would have expected him just to silence you for good. 
Obviously he is preparing this place for some new and big enterprise 
and is probably occupied, but now I think we'll be hearing from him 
before too long. Before that happens, I think we'd better be gone."

"Escape? You talking about escape, Zip? From here?" asked Joe with 
amazement.

Zip addressed St. George. "Tell us everything you know about how this 
asteroid works. Leave out no detail whatever. Everything you can 
remember. Joe and Mark, pay close attention! We have to come up with a 
plan!"



A full day had passed since Richard Starlight had called the special 
meeting in his office in the towers of Starlight Enterprise. Now he sat 
silent and alone in one of the chairs around the great table. Suddenly 
he spun the chair around and stared through the clear wall in front of 
him. His gaze went far past the lunar mountains into the distant sky 
where Mars was just rising, a tiny red point.

The President had issued his commands earlier that morning. A secret 
communication had been issued to the commanding officers of all the 
bases of Space Command. A similar message had been sent to the heads of 
large commercial enterprises such as Starlight Enterprise and Nolan 
Mining Enterprise, as well as the local authorities of population 
centers in the Asteroid Belt and on Mars. The communication had 
provided what information was known about the threat that the pirates 
manifested. It ordered Space Command and urged the private parties to 
keep the information secret so as to avoid panic and to prevent the 
pirates from learning that their sheathing apparatus had been observed 
in action, and advised all parties to prepare for any attack the 
pirates may launch. They were put on high alert for visual attack and 
to be ready for instant defensive response. 

In Amundsen City, Keith Seaton sat at his desk, scanning the Asteroid 
Belt with his telescope. His strong build filled the chair in which he 
sat. 

"There's Ceres," he said quietly as the image of the Belt's largest 
asteroid came up on the screen. Charlie Taylor and Allen Foster, who 
were sitting next to him, nodded. The fathers of the three Starmen 
weren't conversing much that night, but all were greatly comforted by 
each other's presence.

On Ceres, Sim Sala Bim received the encrypted message on tight beam, 
and felt immense sadness come over him as he read it. "Where are those 
three young Starmen now?" he wondered.

In the laboratories of Starlight Enterprise's main center on the Moon, 
scientists were working around the clock to devise a method by which 
their ships could track distant objects by sight instead of radar. 
Additionally, under a very rare Presidential command, technicians were 
working frantically under Earth's pre-eminent astrophysicist, Stephen 
Hoshino, trying to devise an advanced means of detecting a ship that 
was invisible to radar.

The Inner Planetary system was waiting for a strike which its defenders 
knew would surely come-but not when, where, or how. 


8: The Starmen Strike!

ALMOST an hour had gone by since George St. George had begun to tell 
the three Starmen what he knew of the asteroid. Zip, Mark, and Joe had 
listened intently, plying the asteroid miner with detailed questions as 
he continued his narrative. At last, no one had anything else to say.

"No more questions?" Zip asked. Both Joe and Mark shook their heads. 
Their energy level had gone up appreciably since they had sat down with 
George. They had become spirited, now that they were determined to find 
a plan of escape.

"All right, then. It seems to me that this may be easier than we 
thought," stated Zip.

"You have an idea already?" asked Joe, with a slight turn of his head.

"It seems obvious that this asteroid was not intended to house 
prisoners. This room we're in is not a cell block-it's a dormitory."

"Right," said Mark. "Therefore the locking mechanism is not original to 
the asteroid's design. Is that where you're going, Zip?"

Zip smiled. "Keep going," he nodded.

"Whoever made this asteroid was far in advance of our science and it'll 
probably be a long time before we, or anyone else, learn how to alter 
their design. But the locking mechanism was most likely put in by the 
pirates, probably on short notice. It can't be too sophisticated a 
system. Again, since this is a dormitory and not a cell, the wiring is 
probably on this side of the door rather than in the hallway. Let's 
find where the pirates rewired the door. Whatever they can do, we can 
undo."

The Starmen leaped up and began to investigate the door and the walls 
near it very carefully. Now that they had some idea of what they were 
looking for, they hoped it would be easier to find an access panel of 
some kind which their previous general search had missed. Minutes 
passed with no result. The walls had no apparent seams, and the door 
was set into the framework so closely that there seemed to be no space 
between the door and the edge of the wall into which it slid.

"Try the floor," suggested Joe. Mark dropped down and scanned the floor 
minutely. Joe moved farther to the right and Zip to the left of the 
door, their fingers moving gently over the surface looking for some 
kind of irregularity.

St. George watched them with a mix of curiosity and amazement on his 
face. His men sat at the tables playing games, paying the Starmen 
little heed. Once in a while one looked up, then turned back to his 
game. Others napped on the sofas.

"Look here," said Mark. Zip and Joe came over to see what he had found. 
"What do you see?" he asked them, sitting back on his heels.

"Where?" asked Joe.

"You find it-see if I'm right," answered Mark.

Joe pursed his lips and squinted. Zip watched carefully. George 
appeared almost impassive, but inside his heart was beating faster.

"I see it," observed Joe after a minute.

"What?" burst out St. George, then looked almost sheepish for showing 
his excitement.

"The light reflects off this patch here just a little differently from 
the rest of the floor. It's a perfect square about, oh, fifteen inches 
on a side."

"Right," said Mark.

"How do we open it-if it's a panel, that is?" asked Joe. He pushed the 
corners, tried sliding the panel in every direction, bounced the square 
with his fingers, all with no result.

"Let me try," said Mark. He laid his hand gently on top. In a few 
seconds there was a click and the square lifted up an inch, supported 
by a small, spring-loaded shaft in the center. Mark lifted the panel 
off and revealed a recess filled with finely detailed circuit boards. 
Over and around them were a few dark wires that obviously did not 
belong to the original design.

Joe snorted. "How did you do that?"

"Well, I thought that it had to be some sort of radiation that would 
open it. There were no obvious signs of physical fasteners like screws. 
So I figured it had to be magnetism, or light, or maybe heat. I thought 
body heat would be the easiest to try, so I laid my hand on it, 
concentrated, and made it warm, and it opened!"

"Good work, Mark, but let's not waste time! We're in a hurry now," 
urged Zip. "What do you see in there Joe?" By now George and several of 
his men had come over and were watching over the shoulders of the 
Starmen.

"Yeah, really simple circuit. I can disconnect it in a minute even 
without tools and we can be out the door." Joe reached in.

"Wait!" Zip grabbed Joe's wrist. "Is there any evidence that the 
circuit is tied into a larger system, like a master computer, that 
would tip anyone off that the door has been opened?"

Joe peered into the aperture and carefully traced the wiring.

"Sorry, Zip. Sorry, everybody," he said, chagrined. "You're right. 
There is. But I can fix that too." He reached in and twisted two wires 
together. "Okay, that should bypass the door circuit and tell the 
master computer that the door is still closed. I can open the door now. 
Are you ready?"

Zip stood up. "There are fourteen of us. We don't know where to go once 
we're free, so I'd like George to lead us. He's been through the 
asteroid. Take us somewhere, George, where we won't be found easily."

George shook his head in a big arc. "Now Zip, I haven't been on this 
chunk for over fifteen years. I'm not real sure where to go!"

"George, no one else has been on the asteroid at all. There's no one 
but you."

The asteroid miner looked down, dejected. "I don't like any of this. 
But you're right. Okay. We'll go out the door and back to the 
elevators. We'll take the one on the left. I'll take us to a floor one 
level down, then through a huge storeroom. On the other side are other 
corridors. I've been through there, and there are places to hide and 
more elevators to get us other places on the asteroid. After that I'm 
not sure. Maybe I'll remember when we get there."

"Everyone got that?" said Zip. "Stay together and move quickly." No one 
had anything else to say. Zip turned to Joe.

"Let's go," decreed Zip. Joe removed one end of a black wire and 
touched it to another terminal. The door slid open.

Outside was a scene that none of the Starmen had expected. Two pirates, 
dressed in their gray and black uniforms, were seated opposite one 
another at a small table on the far side of the corridor. The one on 
the right was a well-muscled, large man with dark hair, weighing well 
over 200 pounds; the other was blond, of medium build. He was leaning 
on his elbow, pondering his next move in a board game. When the door 
slid open, they both looked up, utter surprise written over their faces.

Both the Starmen and the pirates froze for a split second, then both 
sides moved at once. Mark charged for the big man and Joe for the 
blond. Simultaneously the huge pirate bellowed and threw the table 
toward the charging Starmen, scattering the game pieces. Mark stopped 
the flying table without slowing his pace and slammed it hard back at 
the pirates, legs first. The blond man managed to evade the table, but 
the big pirate took two table legs on his left thigh and upper chest. 
He groaned, and the laser pistol he had been drawing was caught behind 
the table. Mark quickly threw the table upside-down to his left, 
reached with both hands for the pirate's right arm, and pulled the man 
quickly down and toward himself. His right knee came up and caught the 
man in the solar plexus. The pirate went down with a whoosh of air and 
lay still. Mark picked up his pistol.

Meanwhile, the blond pirate had screamed for help in a panicky voice, 
turned, and was dashing down the corridor toward the elevators. Joe 
took hold of the table's leg nearest him and skated the table 
forcefully down the corridor after the escaping pirate. It caught the 
man behind his left ankle as he was running. In the low gravity, the 
pirate turned almost completely over, his pistol flying. Joe caught up 
with him and delivered a quick punch that rendered the man unconscious. 
The entire fight had taken less than ten seconds.

Zip stepped into the corridor calmly. "Did either of them have a chance 
to set off an alarm?"

"I think this one did," responded Joe, pointing to the fallen pirate at 
his feet and picking up his laser pistol. "He had about five seconds 
while he was running to send an emergency call."

Zip grimaced. "That was stupid. I should have thought that they would 
have a guard. I just didn't think of it, with all the electronic 
gadgetry around here and their obvious need of manpower. My fault. 
Sloppy thinking. But it's worse to stand here and feel badly about it. 
We've got to disappear fast."

"This way!!" shouted George and began to run toward the elevator. The 
asteroid miner who had previously been so sedate and hesitant now led 
the way. The Starmen followed him and the ten others brought up the 
rear. George reached the elevator door and pressed the panel. In 
seconds a door opened and the men hurried in. Just as the last man 
rushed through the opening and the doors began to close, the elevator 
doors in the next shaft opened and a troop of pirates poured out, guns 
drawn. In front of them they saw their two comrades lying motionless in 
the corridor, table and chairs in full disarray.

"Come on!" commanded their leader, leaping forward and turning toward 
his men to enforce his order. His eyes opened wide as he saw the doors 
of the adjacent elevator closing on the escaped prisoners. The 
Starmen's last view of the scene was the pirate leader's shocked face, 
mouth agape, pulling his laser pistol up to fire. Then their doors 
sealed and they began to descend.

Almost instantly, it seemed, the door opened. The only light came from 
the interior of the elevator. It shone on an uncountable number of 
enormous crates, stacked three high and set in rows extending beyond 
the range of the minimal light. Though the walls of the room could not 
be seen, there was a distinct feeling that the open space was 
huge-larger than a gymnasium, perhaps larger than a stadium. No one 
said a word. No one moved.

Suddenly Zip grabbed the laser pistol that Joe was carrying and leaped 
out of the elevator. He whipped around and fired at the control panel 
next to the large central elevator. The panel flared red for a second 
and then sparked like fireworks. Zip released the activation trigger on 
the pistol and stepped back. A few pops echoed in the darkness against 
a background of the soft sizzling sound of molten metal dripping down 
the wall.

Zip ran to the third elevator, calling out, "Move away from the 
elevator! Mark, destroy the controls!" Simultaneously Mark and Zip 
demolished the control panels of the remaining two elevators. When the 
controls were obliterated, the lights in the elevator went out and the 
fourteen erstwhile prisoners stood in the utter darkness of the immense 
chamber. The sole illumination was provided by the fading red glow of 
the superheated panels that had been their targets and a few bright 
orange dots in the gaping holes that remained.

"I don't know if that'll prevent the pirates from stopping at this 
floor, but every elevator on Earth I know about can't move beyond any 
floor where the controls are inoperable. George! Where do we go?" Zip 
asked.

"Does anyone have a light?" responded the asteroid miner. Just then a 
pale glow like early dawn rose around them and filled the chamber.

"What's that?" cried a frightened voice.

"Automatic lighting, probably," answered Joe. "When someone moves far 
enough away from the elevator, or when its light goes out, the 
automatic lighting goes on."

"Follow me," directed George. He led the procession to the right of the 
elevator shafts. On one side was a blank wall at least 25 feet high. On 
the other were row upon row of crates. Each box had a mark on it, but 
none of the Starmen could recognize its meaning. Far down the rows was 
the opposite wall of the chamber, at least 200 yards away.

George St. George was hurrying, leading the band of fourteen onward. 
There was no opportunity for conversation, but Mark stepped up close to 
Zip, who had taken the last position in the march.

"Think what this place is, Zip!" the mystically-oriented Starman 
breathed, his eyes alight with excitement. "This was made by an 
intelligent, extra-terrestrial race we've never heard of! The Titanians 
certainly didn't make it! And whoever made it was shaped just like us! 
As George said before, the controls, the beds, the chairs-all are 
designed for people like us! Same size! And imagine what must be in 
these storage units!"

"I have been thinking about it, Mark," answered Zip. "I'll want more 
time later to sift through my impressions, but there are too many 
questions here to deal with at the pace we're going."

"Of course, but think! Who made this place? How big is the complex? 
When and why did they abandon it? Where are they now?"

"Yes-and above all, what else will we find in here?"

Just then the screech of tortured metal sounded loudly throughout the 
chamber. Everyone turned and stared back at the elevators, where the 
sound was coming from. A spot on the left door of the central elevator 
began to glow red, then orange, then white. Iridescent metal began to 
spew forth in chunks. Then a spherical mechanism about the size of a 
basketball shot through the hole. A few bright green and yellow lights 
the size of small coins lit up its dull silver surface.

Zip's blood ran cold. "It's an airbot!" he cried. Zip had never seen an 
airbot before, but he knew what it was: an aerial reconobot, an armed 
robotic flying device which, among other uses, could be programmed to 
track down fugitives, drawn by their body heat. Zip and Mark lifted 
their laser pistols and fired simultaneously. Their beams lit up red 
dots on the surface of the flying ball but scattered harmlessly, as the 
Starmen assumed they would. The airbot quickly oriented itself to the 
escapees and began to fly toward them.


9: A Vision in the Night

"RUN! Go! Scatter! Move!" shouted Zip frantically. He ran forward to 
the closest aisle between the stacks of crates, wheeled right, and sped 
down the narrow space. He heard the quiet, efficient "zzap" sound of 
the airbot's disabling beam, but apparently not directed toward him 
yet. Desperation powered his legs and they pumped at peak speed. He 
didn't know where the others were or what they were doing. Someone else 
was racing behind him but he didn't stop to find out who it was.

It was not cowardice that inspired his flight, but the desire to 
preserve the team. Scattering and flying gave a slight hope that some 
of the men might escape the relentless search of the airbot-or at least 
put off the inevitable. The rotation of the asteroid provided 
artificial gravity, but it was low enough to enable the men to move 
quickly, covering a lot of distance as they ran.

"Zzap. Zzap," he heard again, more distant this time. He came to the 
end of the aisle and had to slow to keep from slamming into the wall in 
front of him. He reached out his left hand and grabbed the corner of a 
crate to help him execute the turn. As he made the quick right angle 
twist at the end of the row of crates, he glanced behind him with his 
peripheral vision. Joe was close behind him and several yards farther 
away were two of the miners. Even as he looked, he saw the airbot fly 
over the crates into the aisle he had just cleared, missing the ceiling 
by less than a foot. With the hated "zzap" sound, it fired one beam 
toward the miner at the rear of the headlong retreat, and the man went 
limp and collapsed. His momentum carried him forward several feet 
before he stopped moving.

Zip saw it all in a split-second as his inertia carried him out of 
view. He looked forward again and sped down the aisle; after passing a 
few rows he turned again to the left. Far ahead of him he saw the 
elevator door with the bulging rupture through which the airbot had 
burst into the warehouse. Suddenly the airbot flew over the stack of 
crates to Zip's left and appeared about fifteen yards in front of him. 
A feeling of panicky horror surged through Zip as he saw the airbot 
re-orient itself in his direction.

All at once every point of light on the airbot went out and it hung 
motionless in the air. Then it sped back to the elevator door as if 
jerked by a cable. It smashed through the hole it had made and flew 
into the shaft. Instantly there was a dull "whump," more felt in one's 
tissues than heard aloud. A bright light came through the opening like 
a spotlight, then faded.

"What happened to the airbot?" Joe's amazed voice behind him asked the 
question that was in Zip's mind.

"Let's go," said Zip. "Let's find out who's down and carry them away." 
Both the Starmen were breathing hard, but quickly returned to normal as 
they paced the aisles. In moments they had assembled those whom the 
airbot had not found. Only four men had been disabled by the airbot's 
beams.

"Take us out of here, George," ordered Zip. His voice was quiet but 
carried the authority of leadership that people welcome when there is a 
crisis. Using the fireman's carry, eight men easily transported the 
four who were unconscious. 

George St. George turned without a word and led the way. Everyone 
followed. St. George came to the end of the walkway and turned to the 
left around the last row of storage units. On his right was a bank of 
elevator doors, some large and some small. He came to the first one and 
with his hand shaking pressed some numbers into a control panel. 
Nothing happened.

He looked up to Zip with a countenance marked with anguish and pleaded, 
"I can't do it. My fingers won't work. Mr. Foster, you press the 
numbers, please." Zip stepped up to the panel. As the asteroid miner 
called out the directions, Zip pressed the buttons.

"Top center. Right center. Top right. Top right again. Bottom left. 
Center. Sorry, I'm a little shaken up."

"That's okay, George. I think we'll be fine now." The elevator door 
opened and all the men stepped into the conveyance. The door closed. 
George reached out and pressed one button. The elevator began to 
move-not down or up as the men expected, but away from the chamber 
where they had fought the airbot.

"What's wrong with these men?" asked one of the miners. "They're 
completely unconscious and their arms and legs are swinging around like 
they're puppets or something."

"They're just out temporarily, not hurt," answered Joe. "Airbots 
disrupt certain neural connections to bring on sleep and complete 
relaxation of all muscle functions. I'm not sure how high the airbot's 
beam was set, but I'd guess pretty high. They'll probably sleep for 
several hours but they'll be fine when they wake up."

"What did you do to that machine that was chasing us?" asked another of 
St. George's companions.

"I didn't do anything to it. I don't know what happened to it," 
answered Zip. "I suppose it malfunctioned. Lucky for us." Joe and Mark 
both glanced sidelong at Zip, then looked away. The Starmen knew that 
whatever had happened to the airbot, a malfunction was not one of the 
possibilities.

Another of the miners spoke up. "I've never been on an elevator that 
moved horizontally before. Where are we going, George? This transit is 
taking longer than just moving between floors."

"The elevators inside this rock can move in just about any direction 
except slantindicular. If I remembered accurately, this one'll take us 
to a control and information center of some kind. I don't know where it 
is in relation to where we started, but we should be safe there and if 
I don't forget where we come out, I can always get us back to the 
warehouse if we want to return."

The elevator came to a stop and the door opened onto darkness. As 
before, the elevator light illumined a small space, in which the men 
could see a few counters. When the first passenger debarked, soft 
lights went on. The illumination revealed a room of about 2,000 square 
feet, filled with viewscreens, computer stations, cabinets and shelves, 
tables and chairs, and a few sofas. At least a dozen doors led from the 
room. The four unconscious men were laid carefully down onto the sofas.

"What is this place?" Zip asked St. George.

"Haven't any idea, Starman. I don't mind pushing buttons at random when 
it comes to elevators, but you won't find me playing with any machine I 
don't understand. I don't want to find the ejection seat or rocket 
launchers by accident."

"What do you think, Mark, Joe? Let's look around here." The Starmen 
began to examine the keyboards and control systems spread throughout 
the room. There were symbols written beside most of the controls, but 
none of the writing was recognizable.

"Alien writing," observed Mark. "I'd sure like to know what it says."

Joe was at the next console, thoughtfully pressing buttons, but there 
was no response.

"We need to find food and water," said one of the others.

"Right," said Zip. "Everyone check through the shelves and cabinets. 
Open the doors, too, and look through, but don't go anywhere." Zip 
didn't speak aloud what was on his mind. The workings of the asteroid, 
no matter how technologically advanced, had been abandoned for probably 
thousands of years. There could be no water or food anywhere except 
where the pirates were. The Starmen and miners may have escaped 
captivity, but their freedom would do them no good until they found 
food, water, and a spaceship. Success in finding even one of those 
items without being recaptured was highly unlikely. And even if they 
could board a ship, escape from the asteroid was just about impossible. 
He wondered how long it would take before someone else realized these 
things and voiced them.

"There's nothing, Mr. Foster," said one of the men after everyone had 
searched thoroughly.

"Mm hmm," Zip nodded. "Well, let's sleep and start again in the 
morning. Maybe some of us can go back to the warehouse and open up a 
few of those crates. There may be food and water in some of them. 
Others can investigate some of the passages that lead away from here."

The men arranged themselves around the room and lay down. "I think I 
found the light switch, anyway," said Joe and pressed a button next to 
one of the doorways. The room became dark.



"I assure you, Mr. Zimbardo, there was nothing wrong with the airbot," 
asserted a large man, standing before the pirate leader with a half 
dozen of his partners. "I don't know what threw it back into the 
elevator shaft and I don't know what made it explode-but there was 
nothing wrong with it. The prisoners must have done something to it."

"These prisoners are more than asteroid miners! None of St. George's 
men has the capability of knocking out two armed men the way those two 
were knocked out. None of them has the know-how to disable a airbot!" 
Zimbardo turned to his chief control officer. "Gene! Get me Lather 
right away. Tell him to bring up all information he has on the 
prisoners he brought in from Z25. Tell him to bring especially the 
video-record of the prisoners." He turned back to the others. "You're 
dismissed!"

Soon Lather appeared with a handful of records.

"Let's see the video-record first," said Zimbardo, and pushed his 
computer a little closer to his lieutenant. The man inserted the disk. 
In seconds, a view of the prisoners appeared on the screen, each one 
shuffling by as they entered the Silver Cloud.

When all the prisoners had passed by, Zimbardo turned his head down in 
disgust. Lather opened a file and brought out another disk. "I've got-" 
he began.

"You fool!!" spat out Zimbardo through gritted teeth. "I don't need to 
see any more! I know who we've got now! How could you miss seeing that 
the three Starmen who completely destroyed our plans on Mars were your 
passengers for three days! How could you miss it??" He was shouting 
now. "They've been on the news for two weeks! How-" Zimbardo paused and 
tried hard to get control of himself. "They were our prisoners! -and 
now they've escaped! They're loose inside this asteroid, and we don't 
know where!"

"But sir," inserted Lather when Zimbardo paused to take a breath and 
clutch the air. "There aren't many places they can hide. There's not 
much to the inside of the complex-only five floors."

Zimbardo turned to the ship captain. With words that smoldered, he 
said, "The complex of this asteroid is far larger than you think! I 
have barely begun to explore, and St. George knows more than I do!"

Back in control now, Zimbardo punched his desk communicator. "Gene! Get 
a search party together and have them scour every part of the asteroid 
they can find." He filled in the details about the Starmen. But he knew 
that neither the miners nor the Starmen would be found. With George St. 
George leading them, they could be anywhere-anywhere but where his men 
would be able to search.



Mark came out of a deep sleep into a light doze. He knew he was 
sleeping, but he was also mindful of his surroundings. It gradually 
washed through him that he was hearing voices. Two voices were 
conversing in very low tones, far away. He had a feeling that the air 
was thick and the sound had to struggle to get to him. He became aware 
of his eyelids, and they fluttered. Fully conscious but deeply relaxed 
now, he slowly opened his eyes. He saw only darkness, but it was not 
absolute.

He turned his head slowly to the left. Through an open door, about 
twenty feet away along a corridor were two tall, vaguely humanoid 
beings wrapped in shadows. Mark's heart leaped and began to race, but 
outwardly he showed no trace that he was alert. His eyes narrowed in an 
attempt to see more clearly. He knew instinctively that the creatures 
were alien. They walked in utter silence and stepped into the room. 
Mark lay frozen. They looked around for a few seconds, then went back 
into the corridor to the place where he had first seen them. They 
manifested no ill intent toward the sleepers.

The figures began conversing in low voices. Mark sensed a deep sadness 
in their tone. He strained to hear what they were saying, what their 
words sounded like.

Suddenly he heard something that sounded familiar. "A coincidence," he 
thought to himself. They couldn't have said "Zimbardo." After several 
more exchanges, one of the figures pressed a series of buttons on the 
wall, next to a blank screen. It came alive with a dull silver glow. 
Bright green lines appeared in the configuration of a map or blueprint. 
Mark strove to see as well as to hear. Slender fingers pointed to one 
part of the screen or another as the conversation continued.

Then he heard it again, this time clearly. "Zimbardo." Mark lifted his 
head a little and turned so he could observe the screen better. "A plan 
of the surface control center," he thought. He recognized the floor 
plan by its telltale great doors through which the prisoners had been 
marched.

The scene changed as one of the figures pressed a button. A series of 
diagrams appeared, diagrams that indistinctly suggested a power plant 
to Mark. One of the tall figures began talking animatedly, pointing to 
various locations and repeating the word "Zimbardo" frequently.

Suddenly Mark understood what was going on: the aliens were talking 
about shutting down the power plant! Mark strained to get a closer look 
at the diagram they were examining. "The aliens!" His mind raced. "They 
must be the builders of this base! Shutting down the power plant-why, 
they must want to stop Zimbardo! They're on our side!"

Then the other figure spoke up. He seemed to agree with the animated 
one, but his voice had a sorrowful tone to it. He pressed a few buttons 
on the screen and a picture of a warship appeared. As the alien pointed 
to the ship and talked, all the life seemed to drain out of his 
companion and he began looking hopeless and despondent. He turned the 
screen off.

Mark didn't understand-what was that ship? Why did it bring such 
hopelessness?

As the panel went dark, Mark realized with a crushed heart that, for 
some reason, the aliens were not going to deactivate the power plant 
after all. He buried his face in his hands. Something was stopping 
them, something having to do with the spaceship that had appeared on 
the screen last.

Mark looked up and saw that the figures had vanished!


10: Both Sides Move

THE GREAT AIRLOCK on the pirates' asteroid opened. From the depths of 
the abyss five ships came forth. Emerging from the stone tunnel, they 
moved into formation and then headed for the Asteroid Belt. Lurton 
Zimbardo's lieutenant Crass held the authority over the small fleet. 
Each ship was sheathed with the radar bender, making it invisible to 
the normal means of detection used by Starlight Enterprise, Space 
Command, and other Earth-based entities.

As the ships came into the Belt, Crass gave the command to the other 
four pilots. "The target asteroid has been located. Proceed with the 
destruction of the sats." The sats were small, unmanned electronic 
satellite observers, distributed throughout the Asteroid Belt to aid in 
research and navigation. They monitored movement in the Belt and 
provided constantly updated information on the location, speed, and 
direction of major asteroids.

The four ships moved into pre-determined areas in the quadrants around 
a small, heavy, black, iron asteroid that was speeding smoothly along 
on its course.

Crass stood on the deck of his ship and gazed out at the small 
asteroid. He spoke as if to himself. "There it is, the first of five 
surprise packages for our beloved Mars." The pirate leader waited 
patiently for the pilots of the four companion ships to report back. He 
expected that their assignment would take about 45 minutes-maybe as 
long as an hour. The first report came in 42 minutes later.

"Mr. Crass, this is Slant. We located three sats in quadrant two and 
destroyed them all." The other reports came in only moments later. A 
total of fourteen sats had been located within 600 miles of the 
asteroid where Crass was waiting, and all had been destroyed. Crass 
opened the intercom on his own ship.

"We're clear. Go to it."

Over a dozen space-suited men spilled out of the airlock. They had been 
waiting for the order from Crass. Each carried a large crate, nearly 
weightless in the Asteroid Belt. They maneuvered easily through space 
and floated gently to the surface of the asteroid-a dark 100-yard wide 
clump of dirty rock. Immediately the men began to distribute the crates 
evenly over the surface of the rock.

The grim, forbidding, pocked asteroid became the site of frenzied work. 
The crewmen removed sheet after sheet of dark metal from the crates and 
fastened them to the floating chunk of iron. Tiny flames showed where 
the irregular metal of the asteroid was being shaped to fit the plates 
the pirates were anchoring to its surface.

In one hemisphere three other men were attaching power and propulsion 
units. They sank holes several feet deep and inserted tubes, fuel 
tanks, and a control mechanism. At one place near the asteroid's 
equator a technician was installing a communications unit.

The four companion ships had returned and remained on guard less than a 
quarter mile from the asteroid. In less than two hours the work on the 
asteroid was completed and the crewmen reentered their ship.

"Take us home," ordered Crass. The five ships left the Belt and began 
the quick journey back to their port. Crass smiled most of the way back.



On Mars in the communications tower of Eagle City, technician Mel 
Golden was puzzled. Some of his data had just dried up. Mel was 
responsible for monitoring the sats in a large segment of the Asteroid 
Belt, and a section over a thousand miles in diameter had gone dark. He 
called to his superior.

"Will, I've got something curious here." A slender, middle-aged man 
with long gray hair walked over to the console.

"What is it, Mel?"

"Look at this. You asked us to report anything out of the ordinary. 
Well, occasionally one sat will malfunction, but it looks as if at 
least a dozen have stopped reporting all at once. I haven't plotted out 
the details yet, but there's an entire section of the Belt where 
nothing's happening."

"When did it start?"

"Just a moment ago. So whatever occurred out there happened 
about..."-he thought for a second-"about eleven minutes ago."

"Thanks, Mel. This could be the surprise we've been waiting for. I'll 
report this immediately." Will went over to the master communicator in 
the tower and sent a top priority message to Space Command's 
headquarters on Mars, describing the situation. Space Command 
headquarters forwarded the information to its centers on Earth and the 
Moon, as well as to Oritz Konig, SE's Head of Security in Mars Base.

Konig's report to Richard Starlight included these words: "It looks 
probable that the pirates have taken some sort of action in the Belt. 
There are no population centers of any size within 10,000 miles of the 
place, and no known solitary miners. It's a completely dead spot, and 
sats are spaced very thinly there. Yet fourteen sats in a sphere at 
least a thousand miles in diameter were put out within a ten-minute 
period. No natural phenomenon can explain that. Space Command has the 
closest ship, but it won't get to the site for a little more than 22 
hours. The nearest backup ship is more than three hours after that. SE 
doesn't have a ship of any kind at all within four days of the site, so 
we'll have to depend on Space Command for the first reports."



"Wake up! Everybody wake up!" Starman Joe Taylor was shouting.

"What is it? What's wrong?" Voices came from several men, jerked awake 
by Joe's outburst.

"Food! There's food here!" he burst out. "And water! Someone brought us 
food and water! Lots of it!"

Within seconds everyone was up and crowding around Joe. Now that he had 
roused his companions, he was bent over a half dozen large boxes, one 
of which was partially open. He reached in and took out a container 
filled with fruit. He handed it to one of George St. George's men, 
reached into the box again, and withdrew a vessel with water in it. It 
had a spigot on it as if it were made for traveling. The men began 
passing it around, drinking deeply. Joe dug in again and brought out 
another box. He opened it and held it up so that others could see. It 
contained several layers of items like large crackers.

"Where did it come from, Joe?" Zip asked.

"I don't know, Zip! I woke up before anyone else and noticed these 
crates. I jumped up, looked around but didn't see anybody. I opened the 
first one and saw the fruit. That's the whole story."

"You don't know it's safe! You took a chance, Joe!"

"What kind of chance, David? Where were we going to find water, much 
less food? We were done for without this."

"Not too much of a chance, I think, Zip," whispered Mark to the 
red-haired Starman. Zip turned his head and looked at Mark curiously. 
"The food's okay. Let the men distribute it and I'll tell you what I 
know."

"Okay," Zip nodded. He turned to George. "Let the men take the crates 
apart and see what we've got here. We'll eat and then we'll make 
plans." George took over operations while the three Starmen stepped 
aside.

"What do you know, Mark?" asked Zip. Mark told the other Starmen what 
he had seen in the middle of the night.

"Hmmm. Hard to credit it, that the original builders of this wonder are 
still here," mused Zip. "Why would they let Earthmen come in and take 
over? I gather from what we've learned and what we've overheard that 
the pirates have been active here for over a dozen years, and George 
found this place over fifteen years ago."

"The pirates haven't really taken over, Zip," said Joe. "It looks as if 
they haven't gone beyond the first few levels! Something's kept them 
out. Only George was able to get beyond the floor where the warehouse 
is. Maybe that's why Zimbardo wanted to find him and keep him alive. 
George doesn't know too much about this, this, I don't know what to 
call this place, but he knows more than any human living."

"Whatever the truth is, we have some friends," contributed Mark. "They 
don't want to be seen, but they'll help us. I'll bet a golden asteroid 
that they're the ones who destroyed the airbot. I think we need to be 
ready to see what happens next."

"You're right, Mark," said Zip. "We'll have to be prepared to move." 
The Starmen went back to the group. Everyone was seated on the floor or 
on chairs, eating a welcome and refreshing breakfast. The four men who 
had been rendered unconscious by the airbot had benefited from a good 
night's sleep and were back to normal.

Mark reached into one of the crates and took out one of the items that 
looked like a large cracker. He saw that several of the miners were 
eating them. Zip had also taken a bite out of one and was chewing 
thoughtfully.

"What do you think of these crackers?" Mark asked.

"Survival food," opined Zip. "The fruit is delicious, though."

When everyone had finished breakfast, George St. George asked, "What 
should we do now, Mr. Foster?"

"I was just going to ask you the same question, George," answered Zip. 
"Let's get the men together and make some plans." George called the 
miners together. Zip delivered a short speech, informing them that he, 
Joe, and Mark were Starmen and gave a brief summary of their 
assignment. With a nod, Zip asked Mark to tell what he had seen during 
the night. Then a number of men began to ask questions.

All at once the room dimmed. The voices stopped suddenly. After a few 
seconds, one of the corridors lit up with a soft, pleasant light. 
"That's the way we go, I think," said Zip. "Pack up the food." The 
contents of the remaining cartons were distributed among the men and 
Zip led the way. He felt more hopeful than he had since the Starmen had 
landed on Z25.

The corridor extended for several hundred yards in a straight line. 
Many doors and other passages led off in different directions, each 
marked with one or more figures, none of which was familiar. The 
passageway was plain and utilitarian. After more than five minutes of 
walking, the men came to an intersection of passages in a large, 
faintly illuminated room. The lights in the corridor faded behind them. 
Across the room was a row of elevator doors. A row of lights lit up 
over one of them. Zip strode boldly across the floor to the elevator 
that had been indicated, and the others followed without a word. When 
he was within twenty feet of the door, it opened. After the men entered 
the compartment and laid down their burdens, the door closed.

On a control panel, one light gleamed and Zip pressed it. When he had 
done so, another light went on. He pressed that one. After he had 
pressed six lights, no more came on, and the elevator began to descend. 
After about a minute, the movement stopped and a door behind the men 
slid open, opposite to that through which they had entered. The men 
turned and inhaled sharply.

"Oh my! Oh my!" exclaimed Zip, but no one heard him.

In front of the men was a power plant of impossibly immense size, in 
dusky darkness. There were low murmurs as of engines pulsing far away 
or of winds passing through trees, but they were quiet sounds. The 
ceiling was out of view, lost in blackness above them. A seamless iron 
floor, perfectly level, stretched out before the men as far as they 
could see. The left wall was beyond their vision; the right wall was 
about thirty yards away. Lights were located sparsely throughout the 
facility.

Gargantuan tubes, gleaming silver in the lights and ribbed like a torso 
of a dragon, snaked through a heavy latticework of girders. Iron pipes 
a foot in diameter ran by the dozens through the open spaces. There 
were catwalks, elevators, and enclosed spiral staircases in strategic 
places. Great metal containers bearing dials and lights of various 
colors took up much of the space.

"Go," said Zip. His voice came out as a whisper, which he had not 
intended. He swallowed and said it again, a little louder this time. 
"Go on, move out. It's okay." The men stumbled forward, filled with awe 
so overwhelming that it paralyzed their vocal cords.

Finally Joe caught his voice. "This is great! Wow! This is GREAT! 
FANTASTIC!!" He pushed through the miners in front of him and ran 
forward about twenty feet. He shouted as loudly as he could. "HEYYY!!" 

There was no echo. His yell disappeared as if it had been damped. He 
suddenly felt chilled and afraid. He turned back to the others and 
rejoined the crowd. He sidled over to Mark. "This place is great," he 
whispered with a smile. Mark's eyes were upturned and shining with 
appreciative wonder.

Zip moved to the front of the company. In a quiet but determined voice 
he said, "Let's go. We'll just follow the main aisle, straight in front 
of us." He began to walk and the others followed. "Don't forget the 
food," he threw over his shoulder. Two men turned back to retrieve 
their supplies and then ran to join the others.

Joe moved up to the front and walked next to Zip. The Starman leader 
was setting a brisk pace.

"Isn't this place fantastic, Zip? Just think of the people who can 
build a thing like this!"

"I am thinking of them," answered Zip. His brow wore the characteristic 
furrow that showed he was not completely at ease.

"What's wrong?" asked Joe, as if he hadn't a care.

"Something bothers me. Our unseen friends, if they are the ones who 
built and maintain this asteroid, are highly advanced 
technologically-far in advance of anything we're likely to achieve for 
centuries. But from what Mark told us, it's obvious that they're afraid 
of something. I can't see that they'd be afraid of Zimbardo and his 
cronies. They're afraid of something else, something we don't know 
about yet-and that makes me afraid."

He continued his fast pace and Joe kept up with him, but Joe's eyes 
glanced into the shadows as they walked.


11: An Asteroid is Missing

THERE was a breeze. A very light breeze, a mere breath. Mark could feel 
it on his cheek, just a slight chill that was pleasant. He had not felt 
air moving since he had been on Mars.

"Surely, the air cannot move in here," he thought to himself. He lifted 
his eyes upward. As he expected, the lights failed before they revealed 
the ceiling immensely far above. "How far?" he wondered. "A half a 
mile? A mile? More?" The lights looked almost like stars, placed in the 
strategic joints and balconied work areas of the monstrous iron 
latticework.

The refugees from Lurton Zimbardo's prison had been walking through the 
power plant for some time-long enough to have covered at least a mile, 
and probably closer to two. Though the surroundings were obviously 
nothing more than the power station of the asteroid, the men were as 
hushed as if they were in a cathedral. They were small figures in an 
enormous place, reminded of their smallness and overwhelmed with a 
sense of the numinous.

Mark sifted through his memories to a time when he was a child of about 
six, and his parents had brought him to Carlsbad Caverns in New Mexico. 
He had stood in an immense room below ground, large enough to contain 
several football fields. He had exulted then, identifying for the first 
time his restlessness inside, his search for something larger than 
himself, something that could fill a universe.

He spoke aloud to no one in particular. "When I was in Carlsbad Caverns 
about a dozen years ago, the ranger told us that the temperature inside 
the caverns was constant. This is like that."

"Sure," responded Joe. "This is a kind of cave. Look at the floor. 
Perfectly smooth, like glass. Artificially shaped, of course, and 
sealed, but it is the substance of the asteroid-no manufactured 
flooring. We must be in the deepest part of the complex here. I feel 
almost as if we are on the bottom of an ocean."

"Joe! Mark!" called Zip from the front of the procession. The men 
stopped walking and the two Starmen joined Zip. "Look at that," said 
Zip, with a lift of his chin.

A computer screen about four feet square was set into the side of a 
huge, gray fabrication of metal, shaped like a cube at least fifteen 
feet on a side and made of thick plates held together with rivets. 
Dozens of pipes in a tremendous variety of sizes came into the cube and 
extended away, disappearing into the dark distance. Some were the 
diameter of soda straws and a few were large enough for a man to crawl 
through. Most were as thick as a man's wrist.

Mark stepped up to the screen at once. Below it was a keyboard without 
markings. He pressed the button which was located in the same place on 
the board as the button he had seen the midnight visitors press to 
activate their screen. A few buttons lit up with tiny green lights, but 
the screen remained black. He tried a few more buttons, but there was 
no response.

"Nothing doing. If you'd like to take a break here, Zip, I'll try a few 
more combinations. We're so far away from the surface of the asteroid, 
I'm sure Zimbardo will never find us now." When Mark said "Zimbardo," 
the screen flashed briefly on each syllable.

"Hey!" exclaimed the Starman. The screen flashed again. "Zimbardo!" he 
said again, and the screen repeated its performance. "It's voice 
activated! And it recognizes Zimbardo's name!" Mark tried a series of 
standard commands for voice-activated computers, but got no response to 
any words other than "hey" and "Zimbardo."

"Take your time, Mark; I don't think we're in a hurry down here," said 
Zip. For half an hour, Mark tried voice commands and combinations of 
keyboard strokes, but made no progress.

"This place is oppressive," said one of the miners, after a long 
silence. "I don't like being closed in by darkness."

"Right," said another. "On the asteroids we can see for thousands of 
light years, but inside here it seems as if life is swallowed. I feel 
as if I'm in something's stomach."

"Starman Foster," said George St. George. "I think we had better move 
on. We need to come to the end of this giant room and get back to light 
and living quarters of some kind. With all this excitement we've had, I 
think the men are just about completely exfluncted."

Zip paused a moment and looked into the distance, then nodded. "Okay," 
he agreed. "This room can't go on forever. Let's find the end of it."



Lurton Zimbardo was in the control center of the asteroid. A small 
group of his most trusted assistants stood silently by. Through the 
wall of glass on his right he could see the cavern where the pirates' 
spaceships were anchored to the landing field. Five of them were out on 
assignment in the Belt. As the work crew on the asteroid was able to 
produce sufficient sheathing, power, and propulsion units, a space crew 
was assigned the task of outfitting the asteroids that Lurton had 
previously chosen.

The first, under the leadership of Crass, had returned that morning. 
Another had gone out almost immediately afterward and one more would 
depart the next morning. By the end of the following day, the last two 
crews would be launched.

Crass' assignment had included the destruction of the sats while he 
performed his task. Now that the pirates knew how easy and fast it was 
to complete the work, they did not bother to destroy the sats in the 
remaining four sites. Zimbardo knew that the destruction of the sats 
would alert Space Command, but the authorities would not be able to 
stop the project before his ships returned. Once they learned what he 
was doing they would expect that he had only one asteroid to command. 
The remaining four would be a shock to them and give him, Zimbardo, a 
powerful psychological edge. He would need it for his last demand. Even 
his most trusted lieutenants had no inkling of the enormity of his last 
ploy.

"Now in contact with G670," uttered Zimbardo, referring to the asteroid 
that Crass and his crew had rigged. The screen was lit up before him. 
"Two minutes and four seconds to go from right...now!" A countdown 
clock was set at his left. The pirate captain checked his figures one 
more time. He had plotted the orbit of Mars, the thrust and direction 
of the power units on G670, the speed of the red planet in its course 
and its rotation, the anticipated acceleration of the asteroid, and the 
time delay involved in making adjustments to its course. He had checked 
his computations half a dozen times and then commanded three others to 
do so.

Three, two, one... read the countdown clock. Zero. Zimbardo pressed the 
button. He remained motionless for at least ten seconds. Then he sat 
back and exhaled loudly. He had not noticed that he hadn't been 
breathing. Then he turned and smiled broadly to his audience.

"Five and a half days from now, everyone in the Earth-Moon-Mars system 
will know who we are!"



Oritz Konig was making another report to Richard Starlight. "The Space 
Command ships came onto the site and found no sign of human presence. 
They quickly replaced the sats, got them activated, and then checked 
data. I don't know how to explain it, Richard, but an asteroid is 
missing. Other than that, there is nothing different in the area of the 
Belt that had gone dark, but obviously the pirates have done something 
with an asteroid. It's not a very big one-only about 100 yards in 
diameter, maybe a little more-but it's vanished."



The Starmen and miners had been walking more than three hours, and 
covered a distance of about ten miles.

"A wall," announced Zip. "We've come to the end of it at last."

"You'd think that a race that can make elevators go sideways could have 
come up with a way to traverse this gymnasium quicker and easier than 
walking," grumbled Joe.

"Didn't I hear you say that this place is great?" inquired Zip.

"It is. Back then, I meant 'great' like 'magnificent'; but now it just 
feels like 'great' as in 'really big.'"

The company came up to the wall. There was a bank of elevators in front 
of them and several sets of doors to their right. In a large open 
gathering place, there were many platforms like flat beds, with rods 
coming out of one end and sticking up perpendicular to the beds.

"Joe," said Mark, investigating one of the beds. "Here's your easier 
way to travel. These things must be some sort of dolly or truck. I saw 
a lot of them where we first came out of the elevator, but I didn't 
recognize them."

"And we didn't know how big the room is, either, so we didn't look for 
means of transportation," added Zip.

"No wheels," said Joe, peering at the apparatus, "and doesn't need 
them. Magnetic, probably, with this iron floor. Man," he said with 
exaggerated disgust, "we could have floated in comfort the whole length 
of the place."

"We're here now," said Zip, matter-of-factly. "What happens next? We'll 
see if our friends are still with us."

The men waited for some sign of guidance, but there was only silence. 
No lights were activated over an elevator. Minutes dragged on. "Try the 
doors," said Zip at last, and walked to the nearest elevator. He 
pressed buttons, but nothing happened. "Go on, try the other ones," he 
called out with a wave of his hand. Some of the men went to the other 
elevators and pressed buttons. Others went to the standard doors 
adjacent to the elevators, but they did not open.

"Well, I guess we have to go back," said Joe. No one laughed.

"This one's open," called one of St. George's men. They all turned and 
saw an open door-the tenth in a row of identical, unmarked doors along 
the wall. The man didn't go through it but waited for Zip. The leader 
of the Starmen went through the portal onto a metal deck. Stairs went 
upward. He began to climb, with the others following after.

Three flights up he came to another door, which opened as he set foot 
on the landing. He went through it into a room outfitted as a small 
hangar. Five spaceships of alien design were clamped to the floor. At 
the far end of the hangar was an airlock.

Walking gingerly, Zip stepped out a little farther into the hangar. The 
airlock was enormous and perfectly clear, revealing thousands of stars. 
Though it had been only a few days since he had seen a starscape, now 
it almost seemed as if he were perceiving the heavens for the first 
time. A feeling of awe coursed through him.

"We're almost free," he whispered.


12: First Impact

"ALIEN SPACECRAFT!" murmured Joe, slowly. "Magnificent!"

He and Mark had followed Zip into the hangar. George St. George and his 
men came after them. They huddled close together and remained at the 
door while the Starmen strode across the floor of the hangar toward the 
spacecraft.

The five ships were sleek craft with a highly swept delta wing design. 
The hulls were a startlingly reflective deep forest green color. The 
craft looked identical to each other, each about 75 feet long with a 
wingspan of about 45 feet. The windshields were black and opaque. They 
lay horizontally on the floor of the hangar, all pointed toward the 
airlock.

"Beautiful! Just gorgeous!" exclaimed Mark. As he approached the alien 
craft he noted that the hull was not merely colored, but patterned. "Oh 
my! Look at this!"

Joe and Zip were right behind Mark and came over to see what the big 
Starman was showing them. The hulls were not only beautifully colored, 
but showed evidence of leaf patterns. Subtle gradations in color gave 
the impression that the ships were almost camouflaged-that they could 
land in a deep forest and become almost invisible.

"This is a work of art, a work of genius!" exclaimed Joe.

"How do you get in?" asked Zip, looking for a door. He was running his 
hands over the surface. There was no sign of a doorway, no seal or join 
anywhere he could see or feel. He could see his reflection in the side 
of the spacecraft as if he were looking into a still pool in a forest.

"So close, yet so far," said Mark. "Here are ships, there is an 
airlock, but we're not any closer to escaping than we were before."

"This'll take some time," said Joe, with a grimace. "It's probably 
voice-activated, like the computer screens below." The company had 
passed large computer screens regularly on their trek through the power 
plant. "All we need to do is learn the language of an alien race we 
don't know, have never met, and whose language we can't read. Then we 
can break free of here."

"Let's get busy," said Zip. "I like a challenge. We were led here by 
our hosts. There has to be a way."

Zip went back to George St. George and his men. "We'll be working on 
getting into one of the spacecraft and learning how to use it. You can 
help by exploring this place and finding out what's here. George, would 
you please take an inventory of what we've got in the way of food and 
drink and make a plan for making it last as long as you can. We'll also 
need spacesuits. We can probably fly without them if we have to, but 
it's a bad risk."

"Okay, Zip. We'll do our part," responded George. His men scattered 
throughout the hangar. There was a lot to investigate. It was only 
about 200 yards long and 50 yards wide, but was lined with cabinets. 
There were shelves and racks with equipment of various kinds, some 
recognizable and some decidedly not. More than a dozen doors opened 
into the hangar. Zip went back to the spacecraft the Starmen had chosen 
for their escape vehicle.

Joe and Mark were at the closest work station, where there were tools 
of curious manufacture.

"What can you guess about the alien race that built this place?" asked 
Joe as he ran his hands across a set of tools, picking one up and 
putting it back down. "What do we know about them?"

"They're humanoid, definitely," replied Mark as he gazed at a rack of 
instruments. "We've already agreed on that. I assume that the two 
figures I saw last night are from the people who constructed this 
amazing facility. Can't guess why they're not out in force here, unless 
there are only a few of them aboard. Can't guess why they don't show 
themselves. Don't know how old this asteroid is or what it is for. But 
they're definitely humanoid. Even if I hadn't seen them, we could tell 
that by the shape of the tools and everything else we've seen."

"And the food they gave us is not too different from what we're used 
to. And think about this: they put fresh fruit in those food packages. 
They must have a hydroponic orchard somewhere in this asteroid. There 
must be a huge portion of this complex that no human has ever seen-and 
maybe can't get into! This place is big enough to house an entire city. 
Maybe there are thousands of them here! George said that he only 
explored a tiny part of the inhabitable region when he was here. 
Everything we've seen tells me that they're a lot like us."

"That might tell us something about the nature of the universe, Joe. I 
like to wonder about things like that."

"And look, these spacecraft have wings. They're not just for travel in 
the void; they're made for flight on a planet with an atmosphere."

Zip came over the joined the conversation. "If they helped us get from 
the warehouse area to this hangar, why aren't they helping us get into 
the spaceships?"

"Maybe there're only two of them-the two I saw last night," suggested 
Mark. "Maybe they're caretakers or something like that, and not 
spacemen. Maybe they don't know much more than we do how to get into 
these beauties."

"Well, whatever the reason, I guess we're on our own, at least for the 
time being."

"Looks like some sort of laser here," said Joe, picking up an object 
that resembled a flashlight. It had two dials on it with signs of 
calibration, and a button that was probably intended to activate it. 
"If it is a laser, and if these dials move the power from low to high, 
who knows which end is which?"

"Take it into the power plant and aim it at the floor. An instrument 
that small can't have too much power and won't hurt a half mile of 
solid iron. See what happens," suggested Mark. 

Joe shrugged. "Okay." He went over to the door through which they had 
come a half hour before. He was back in a few minutes.

"It's a laser, all right. This dial here changes the intensity of the 
beam from low to high, and this one-well, watch. There's a barrel of 
powder over here. Talcum or something." He reached in, took a handful 
of the dust, and dropped it back into the barrel. A cloud of dust rose 
up. He activated the laser through it. A bright blue beam appeared. He 
turned a dial and the beam became a brilliant green.

"Lasers of different frequencies, all in one tool!" Mark exclaimed.

"Yeah, and it's got red too!"

"Lots of possibilities with this," said Zip. "I'll bet it can be used 
to open the spacecraft. The doors can't be only voice-activated, or 
they couldn't open the door in a vacuum. What else is there? Heat, 
magnetism, light? They used heat, body heat, on the panel back in the 
room where we were kept prisoner. Heat won't work in deep space. Let's 
try light. We've got the tool here."

The Starmen went back over to the spacecraft. Joe set the laser for 
blue light and ran the beam over the surface of the ship. For several 
minutes he tried various colors and intensities. When he set the laser 
for yellow light, there was a change in the surface of the ship.

"Ah!" said all three Starmen at once. The outline of a door appeared, 
with markings in several places. Joe experimented a little more, 
placing different intensities on the markings. In a moment he was 
rewarded. The door recessed a few inches into the ship, and slid aside 
with quiet efficiency. Joe immediately stepped through the portal.

The furnishings of the alien spacecraft were similar to what the 
Starmen were familiar with, but the control panel was more challenging. 
Some controls were obvious, since they were necessary for any 
spacecraft; others were completely unfamiliar.

After about an hour of looking around, Joe sighed, "Gonna need more 
time, Zip."

"I know. We'll just have to dedicate ourselves to it until we feel 
confident enough to take the ship into space."

"I'm making some progress here," announced Mark. He was at a side panel 
near the navigation station. As he worked the keyboard, various 
schemata appeared in quick sequence. "I can't read anything, but it's 
obvious that these are engines. I can't recognize everything that's 
coming up, but most of it I can. See, here is a circuit diagram, and 
this part here can only be a reaction chamber. I think this ship might 
use cold fusion for power, but I can't know for sure until I can read 
this stuff, or see it in action."

"You figure it out, Mark, and I'll fly it," said Joe confidently.

"Well, this stuff is you boys' specialty," said Zip. "I've got to think 
ahead to the next problem. Assuming we can get this rig to fly, and 
assuming we can open the airlock, we've still got to escape the 
pirates. I doubt this ship is one of the invisible ones, and they'll 
have us spotted and speared in less then three minutes if we just fly 
out of here, saying, 'Thanks for the hospitality, sorry we have to 
leave so soon.'"

"You can figure it out, Zip! We'll get this grand machine ready!" Joe 
was enjoying the challenge. It was hard to keep him down.



After eight hours of work on the spacecraft and with dinner behind 
them, Joe said to Mark, "Let's go back into the power plant and see if 
we can't find some way to sabotage the system so that the pirates can't 
find us when we take off. You can bring up some files on those huge 
screens. Maybe we can even find some way to close down their whole 
operation."

"Sounds good to me," said Mark, picking up a glass of water. He took a 
sip and swished his mouth with it, then swallowed. "Best we can do 
without toothbrushes, I guess."

"If it were that easy," said Zip, "our hosts would probably have shut 
down the pirates long before this. After all, it's their plant and they 
know it better than anyone."

"You've got to be right, Zip, but I don't like sitting around. We've 
been in this room all day and I'm ready for a break. I really do like 
that huge plant. Man! Imagine a room ten miles long!"

The three Starmen descended the metal stairs and exited into the 
enormous plant. A few yards away was one of the large computer 
terminals. Mark went over to it and activated it.

"I can recognize a few things, now that I've been through so many of 
the files upstairs," he informed his partners. "This, I think, is the 
lighting system." He pressed a button. There was a loud "chunk" sound 
and the plant lit up brightly.

"Ow!" said the three Starmen and covered their eyes. They were not 
prepared for the sudden brightness. When they could tolerate the light, 
they looked above them. Without a word, Mark lay down on his back and 
just stared upward. Rank after rank of lights went up on the iron 
framework for nearly a mile. A ceiling the color of charcoal was barely 
visible, with what looked like rectangular viewports imbedded in it.

Joe and Zip remained standing and looked to their left. The lights 
blazed for about half a mile. Beyond that point was darkness.

"It will take a lifetime to learn everything there is to know about 
this place," said Mark dreamily.

"I think we'll be back someday," replied Zip. "What else can you do, 
Mark?"

Mark got up and turned the lights off. It took nearly a minute for 
their eyes to adjust to the dimness. While Mark looked through file 
after file, Joe and Zip wandered through some of the iron latticework. 
They climbed spiral staircases for a level or two before descending 
again, and examined the connections of tubes, pipes, and circuits.

"I've got something!" called out Mark. The others ran to him. He 
pointed at the screen. "See, this is the main power generator. I can 
tell because of the coils over here and the way the circuits are 
connected. There are about eight of these; they must be spaced in a row 
a little over a mile apart. They can operate singly or in combination. 
But look! They don't just power the life-support systems-in fact, I 
haven't found that part at all yet. But these are thrust systems! Do 
you know what that means? This asteroid is a spacecraft! It's made to 
travel!"

"Can't be!" said Joe, flabbergasted

"It is. Look." Mark flipped past a few more files, pointing out the 
connections and the diagrams of chambers, coils, and energy field 
generators. "I'm just barely getting a glance at this stuff, of course, 
and I don't understand it all, but I have no doubt about what I've seen 
so far."

"Why don't you look for that life-support file and see if you can turn 
off the pirates' energy or something?" Joe suggested.

"No, Joe," said Zip. "As I said before, if it were a good idea, our 
hosts would probably have done it already. I think that whatever 
they're not doing, we shouldn't try to do. Remember, even St. George 
didn't want to fiddle with something he didn't understand."

"George is a real nice guy, Zip," said Joe, "but I still think he's 
breathed a little too much vacuum for his own good. You have to 
experiment in life, sometimes."

"I want to learn more about this power system! This is amazing!" 
rhapsodized Mark. "If I'm right, this button here will..." He pressed 
it. Almost at once a stream of paper began to feed out of a slot to the 
right of the terminal and fell down, sheet by sheet, into a gathering 
tray. Mark picked up the first sheet.

"It's printing out the diagrams of the thrust system. just like that. 
You're right, Joe-this place is great!"



On the northeast edge of the massive area on the surface of Mars called 
the Mare Hadriacum, stood a complex of domes and cylinders. Made of 
metal and glass, it stood on an open plain about 35 degrees south of 
the equator and 85 degrees east of the central meridian. The complex 
was one of five atmosphere-generating plants on Mars, and the only one 
in the southern hemisphere. In a small crater nearby was the settlement 
of New Emmaus, with a population of about 12,500.

The long process of terraforming Mars had begun when a meteor shower 
struck the fourth planet in 2009, significantly raising the temperature 
of the atmosphere and altering the weather systems. With this jump 
start serendipitously provided by meteorites, Earth had hastened the 
process of making Mars livable by scattering the surface with spores 
and seeds, introducing desert-hardy animals, and establishing the five 
atmosphere-generating plants. Thanks to Earth's efforts, the planet's 
temperature had continued to rise. Eventually water had emerged from 
below ground and from the ice caps around the poles, and the air was 
gradually thickening.

Terraformation had been taking place for almost 150 years, and it would 
be at least another two centuries before it would be possible to live 
anywhere on Mars without a spacesuit. The atmosphere-generating plants 
were critical to the process. The plants themselves were automated, 
with all systems operated and monitored by robots, and the major 
centers of population on Mars were located in craters not far from each 
plant. The complexes were on the open surface of the planet rather than 
in craters, but the air they created flowed first into the nearest 
depressions in the surface, and it was here that most settlements were 
located.

The plant located in the southern hemisphere was the most remote, but 
had been filling the Mare Hadriacum, locally known as the Red Sea, for 
decades. This great depression was 2,500 miles in diameter. When much 
of the southern ice cap had melted, it filled the Red Sea with water up 
to about three-fourths capacity, making the region a delightful place 
for quiet living.

In the early morning of August 15, 2151, the cloudless sky was a 
brilliant violet, and the sun was rising like a bowl of molten gold. 
Marshal and Averette North, a retired couple, had climbed to the top of 
the crater wall to enjoy the sunrise. Six miles away was the atmosphere 
plant, gleaming in the newly-risen sun.

They were the only ones to see what happened next, but it happened so 
quickly that there was almost nothing to see. In the thin atmosphere, 
there was only a slight vapor trail and a short-lived but powerful 
whine; then with a dull, gut-churning thud a ball of black and orange 
flame slammed obliquely into the desert floor within a quarter of a 
mile of the atmosphere plant. An enormous wave of pinkish-ochre sand 
rose up in front of the impact site like a great wall. The shock wave 
quickly blew the wall of sand upward and outward, so that it sparkled 
like luminous rain until the sand particles became too scattered to be 
seen.

The shock wave struck the atmosphere plant and shoved it aside as if a 
giant, invisible hand were violently clearing a table of unwanted 
crockery. The crater wall where the Norths were standing rocked and 
heaved as if in an earthquake. The shock wave passed them, blowing 
their hair and rippling their clothing as if it were a pleasant breeze 
that died away as quickly as it had come.

The elderly couple stood frozen in shock and watched the cloud of dust 
gradually fill the entire eastern sky. After several minutes, the dust 
was thin enough to reveal a horseshoe-shaped crater almost a mile 
across. On the southwestern edge of the crater, where it trailed off 
into the desert without a sharp boundary, was the place where the 
atmosphere plant had been. Now the plant was broken into many thousands 
of pieces and the wreckage was scattered for three or four miles in a 
wide fan across the sand.


13: The Brink of Disaster

THE ALIEN SPACECRAFT was beautifully designed and well equipped. The 
Starmen had spent more than two days exploring it fully and tracking 
its electronics systems. It was planned for a crew of twenty. The 
galley was not stocked, but Zip assigned some of St. George's men to 
store their food in it. The storage area inside the ship included 
spacesuits for the entire crew. The suits were shaped slightly 
differently from what the Earthmen were used to. They squeezed a little 
in the chest and were somewhat baggy between abdomen and knee, 
especially for the shorter men, but they could be used.

Joe and Mark were working to the point of exhaustion, trying to figure 
out the controls in the cockpit. Mark had to trace innumerable leads 
from the panel through the walls of the craft back to the wings, tail, 
and especially the propulsion compartment. The Starmen found the work 
exhilarating but time-consuming. Mark estimated at the end of the 
second day that he had figured out about 80% of the control panel, 
including all the major systems. Joe confirmed his reckoning and, 
without even igniting the power, was learning to pilot the alien craft. 
Both Starmen kept Zip informed of their progress.

It was still up to Zip to find a way to escape from the asteroid. Even 
if they could pilot the ship, it was certain that the pirates would 
locate them by radar within seconds of their departure and the chances 
of their escape would be practically nil.

The atmosphere tanks supplied with the spacesuits were empty, so Zip 
had to fill them from large storage tanks of pure gases he found to one 
side of the hangar. Since Zip was unable to read any labels, he had to 
analyze the gas in each supply tank to determine which gases the tanks 
contained. Once he had succeeded in identifying nitrogen and oxygen, he 
was able to fill the tanks for the spacesuits with a mixture similar to 
that of air on Earth. This project was tedious and physically 
demanding, but St. George's men assisted him with the heavy work. Since 
the gravity was so low, two men were easily able to move even the 
largest equipment needed for the work. By the end of the second day, 
all the tanks had been filled.

That evening, Zip put on one of the spacesuits and practiced operating 
it and moving around inside the hangar. When he was satisfied that the 
mixture of air was breathable and that he could maneuver in the suit, 
he took off the helmet and walked over to where Joe and Mark were 
sprawled under the spacecraft with a panel open over their heads. The 
deep green of the highly reflective metal hull was marvelously soothing 
to the eye. For a moment, Zip paused and wondered about the race that 
had built the ships. Then he called out to the others.

"Joe, Mark-I'm going through the airlock to see what's out there."

Joe skidded out from under the hinged panel. "Are you sure that's wise, 
Zip? We don't know where the pirates are."

"That's why I'm going out. I have a plan for our escape, but I have to 
explore a little bit outside to see if it'll work."

"Want some company?"

"Thanks, I do, but I'll take George. You and Mark keep up the work." 
Zip went over to where George St. George was sitting at a table with 
several other miners.

"George, could you come with me? I'd like to see what's outside."

"Sure, Zip," said the blond man, standing up. The asteroid miner suited 
up and the two men walked to the far end of the hangar. Zip was 
carrying a small iron plate. In front of them was a huge panel that 
could open to permit spacecraft to pass through the airlock, and on 
either side of it were sets of doors to allow men through. These doors 
entered a hallway that proceeded to the outside of the asteroid and 
allowed passage without the major airlock's having to be emptied.

"Ready?" asked Zip through the suits' intercom system.

"Sure. Let's go." Zip opened the door into the airlock and they passed 
through and closed the door behind them. Zip operated the controls that 
sucked the air out of the hallway. The two men walked about 50 yards to 
the far end of the passage and opened the door to the outside. They 
stepped out onto the surface of the asteroid.

They looked around, but could see no evidence that there was an airlock 
adjacent to where they were standing!

"Camouflaged!" said Zip.

"Whoever made this wondrous thing," commented George, "apparently had a 
reason for wanting to be hidden. Let's make sure we can still get back 
in. Can you open the door we just came out of?"

"No need to worry. I'm not about to close a door behind me for good 
until I know I can open it again." He took the small iron plate and 
used it to jam the door open. From the inside, the door was 
transparent; from the outside, it looked like the surface of the iron 
asteroid. Its hinges were completely hidden. "Now let's see what's out 
here."

For the first time, the two men gazed outward. The Milky Way blazed 
above and to the right, its countless stars bright enough to cast 
slight shadows behind the two men.

"I never tire of seeing that view," said George. "I've missed it, just 
in the few days we've been inside."

"Yes, it's inspiring," answered Zip, but he was already in motion, 
walking and scanning the ground on both sides of him. George followed. 
Their asteroid boots gripped the surface of the asteroid.

"What are you looking for, Zip?"

"Evidence of the pirates. I've got a plan for escaping them, but our 
exit point here can't be too close to their entrance."

"We've walked a dozen miles through the asteroid from their 
headquarters-they can't be too close."

"I'm sure you're right, but there may be other entrances. We found one, 
didn't we?"

"Even if there were other entrances, they're bound to be as invisible 
to the eye as the one we just came out of."

"Right again, I'm sure, George, but I don't want to take any chances. 
Our escape depends on our being unseen-at least for most of the time. 
Then I want to be seen."

"What do you mean, Zip? I- " George suddenly stopped talking, almost as 
if his communicator had been turned off. Zip looked over.

"What's wrong, George?" Through his helmet, George's eyes were opened 
wide and his mouth was agape. "What is it?" Zip repeated.

"We, we, we're not in the Asteroid Belt," George stammered. "Look, 
there's the Belt over there." He raised his hand and pointed. The slow 
rotation of the asteroid that gave it its slight gravity had brought 
the Belt into view over the horizon. Motionless on the asteroid's 
surface, Zip and George were slowly moving into the dawn. A pale sun 
far away was coming into view, and a golden line of light began to grow 
over the 45-mile-long chunk of almost pure iron. The spacesuits' 
faceplates automatically darkened slightly. The sunlight came through a 
scattering of asteroids orbiting at least a thousand miles away.

"He's moved the asteroid. He knows more about it than I gave him credit 
for," Zip said grimly. "My plan will still work, but the situation has 
changed. Now we have to hurry. Let's go back."

Back inside the hangar, Zip called a meeting of the fourteen men and 
explained his plan for escape.

"Sounds good, Zip," affirmed Mark, and Joe agreed.

"What about food and water?" asked one of the miners.

"What's left?" responded Zip. "How many days can we go if we ration 
even more strictly?"

"About five until the food runs out, and there's about a gallon of 
water for each man left."

"We can do it. No choice anyway. Let's get some sleep and start things 
rolling first thing tomorrow."



Immediately after they awoke, the Starmen put Zip's plan into action. 
Joe opened another of the alien spacecraft. The Starmen had taken a 
quick look at the other ships in the hangar and found them to be 
identical. Quickly they made the ship look as if it had been abandoned 
in panic. When they were finished, two men carried a small tank of 
oxygen into the storage area. Joe then piloted the ship through the 
airlock to a point where it hovered just above the asteroid. Zip, Mark, 
and two miners stood outside on the ground. An explosion rocked the 
ship, and a panel was blown out from the wall of the storage area. Joe 
had detonated the oxygen tank to make it look as if some cargo had 
ignited and destroyed the ship.

Joe emerged from the main door and jumped to the ground. He had been 
tethered and the others pulled him in. They went back through the 
airlock and shut the door. They were still able to watch what happened 
through the immense window, transparent on their side. The ship began 
to drift away from the asteroid on a pre-arranged course Joe had set.

"The pirates should be seeing that on their radar in a few minutes," 
said Zip. "I figure the ship has to be at least a quarter mile from the 
surface for it to register on their screens."

But it was nearly ten minutes later that three pirate ships appeared. 
The pirates could easily see the ripped panel on the ship and took only 
a few precautions on approaching the derelict. Zip turned to a 
"reception only" channel on the communicator his suit provided.

"It's not an Earth ship, sir," said a voice, "and it's empty. 
Completely derelict. Must have been clamped to the surface of the 
asteroid and got shaken off when you moved it out of the Belt."

"Go inside! Make sure there's no one in it!" It was the commanding 
voice of Lurton Zimbardo. "Look for any sign that the Starmen had 
something to do with it!"

"Yes sir!" The orders were given and six men left one of the pirate 
ships and went through the open door of the alien craft. It took less 
than a minute to get a report.

"Nothing here, sir," said one of the spacesuited men to his officer. 
"The cargo area has been completely destroyed in an explosion, and the 
wall has been blown open into empty space. There are no suits, no signs 
of any habitation."

"It's an old wreck, sir, and so damaged that it can't be used," 
reported the pirate officer to headquarters.

"Probably left by the beings who built the asteroid," said Zimbardo. 
"Come on back to work. I'd like to take a look at it, but we don't have 
the men or time right now. Other matters are pressing."

"Yes sir." The communication terminated. The pirate ship took back its 
six crew members and the three ships cruised over the horizon.

"Part one, the least risky part, successful," said Zip. "Let's get 
going on part two, right now. Joe?"

"Ready Zip," the lanky Starman responded. He stepped through the 
airlock and leaped off the iron surface of the asteroid toward the 
derelict. Powered by small jets of oxygen he sped to the ship and 
disappeared through the open door.

"Everyone else get busy," called Zip. They ran back through the airlock 
to the hangar. The others were already aboard their escape craft. Zip 
piloted it through the airlock and kept the ship close to the surface 
of the asteroid. The airlock closed behind them. In the meantime Joe 
had caused the damaged ship to drift back down toward the asteroid out 
of radar range. He and Zip brought the two ships together and made a 
link. Joe left the broken ship and joined the others.

"Ready, Zip" he announced, once he was aboard. Zip put the slightest 
possible power into the escape ship, then turned the power off. Both 
ships began to drift away from the asteroid, so slowly as to be almost 
unnoticeable. Zip was hoping that when the pirates saw the blip on 
their radar, they would conclude it was the derelict and pay no 
attention. He was ready to drift for as long as it took to escape the 
notice of the pirates before turning on the power and setting a course 
for freedom. But now that the asteroid was not in the Belt any longer, 
he knew that they would have to drift for much longer than he had 
anticipated.

They were free. But the tension was thick. It would not dissipate for a 
long time. 



Forty-two hours later, Marshal and Averette North witnessed the impact 
of an asteroid that turned their atmosphere plant into rubble. Within 
an hour of the impact, Lurton Zimbardo opened a channel that allowed 
him to speak through nearly every communication system on Mars. Gene 
had previously discovered a method for entering and using all 
communication bands on Mars except those that were most closely 
guarded. He had surreptitiously placed automatic signal points into the 
Martian system without activating them until this moment. Now that the 
moment had arrived, the voice of the pirate leader was heard throughout 
Mars.

"This is Lurton Zimbardo. The atmosphere plant at New Emmaus has just 
been destroyed by an asteroid impact. You were not able to detect the 
asteroid by radar. It struck without warning. This is to prove that I 
am able to render asteroids invisible and send them wherever I wish. 
You cannot see them and you cannot stop them. Within a day the four 
remaining atmosphere plants on Mars will be similarly destroyed.  This 
will convince you that I have more power than you can imagine, and that 
you are helpless to oppose me. After the last asteroid has struck your 
planet, I will announce my demands."

Lurton Zimbardo shut off the microphone in the control center of the 
asteroid. A crowd of at least forty men jammed the center where 
Zimbardo sat at the console. The rest of the pirates were standing in 
the factory or at their assigned work places in the facility. All had 
heard the broadcast. A feeling of immense power and invulnerability 
surged through them. A few men began to cheer, and within seconds the 
enthusiasm had infected the rest of the pirates and the cheer became a 
roar. It rang throughout the control center and along the corridors, 
and filled the factory. Zimbardo's smile was wide. He looked down 
almost modestly, as if he were reluctant to accept the men's accolades.

When the cheers had died down at last, Zimbardo said simply but so that 
all could hear, "And now for the last step in the plan." The room was 
quiet. He took out a set of notes from his pocket. The paper was marked 
with scrawls, lines, and columns of figures. His eyes flicked rapidly 
from the notes to the controls. His fingers began to fly over the 
keyboard. He punched in coordinates and set the power grid. He marked 
the timing of various operations.

Gene, Zimbardo's closest associate, was watching. Gradually his smile 
narrowed. His eyebrows creased. Then his eyes widened and his face 
drained.

"Sir!" he exclaimed in a quiet voice. "Those are the coordinates of 
Earth! If you use those, you'll take this whole asteroid directly to 
Earth!"

"Exactly," nodded Zimbardo. "In about 32 days, as I figure it." He was 
smiling widely again as he pressed "Enter" and activated the asteroid's 
propulsion system.


14: The Shield of St. George

THE CONVERSATION was very quiet, but the microphone picked it up. The 
words that passed between Lurton Zimbardo and Gene were heard by every 
pirate on the asteroid. There was complete silence. The pirates' 
enthusiasm and their complete trust in Zimbardo's leadership was 
instantly badly damaged. Though no one spoke, many of the men began to 
doubt their leader's sanity, and became afraid.

"But sir," pleaded Gene. "This asteroid is the key to our success, and 
we're all its passengers. If you program it to collide with Earth, 
I..." words failed him.

Zimbardo smiled indulgently. "Gene," he soothed, as if explaining 
something obvious to a confused child, "I'm not going to cause us to 
smash into the Earth. We want to control Earth, not destroy it, and how 
better to do it than from a close orbit around the planet in this 
magnificent flying base? I'm taking us to Earth, and there will be 
plenty of time to adjust our course once we get close. We will 
accelerate until about midway there, then decelerate until we achieve 
orbital speed.

"I will, however, inform Earth that I have sent an asteroid more than 
forty miles long on a collision course-an asteroid they can't see and 
can't stop! They will meet any demands I make! They will definitely 
meet any demands I make, after we destroy the five atmosphere 
generators on Mars with pinpoint accuracy. Relax now. In a month or so, 
we will be the undisputed masters of the third planet-and all without 
leaving home!" He laughed.

Gene grinned and also laughed, but while Zimbardo's laugh was deep and 
genuine, Gene's was a little forced. He was relieved, but his trust in 
Zimbardo's leadership had suffered a severe setback. He would be on his 
guard from here on. He looked up and caught the eye of Mr. Lather. His 
face was hard and unsmiling; it was difficult to tell what he was 
thinking. Gene turned and looked at Gebbeth. His expression was marked 
with merciless determination. He, at least, appeared convinced and 
prepared to follow Zimbardo all the way. But Gene was no fool; he 
looked around and surmised that the majority of those in the room were 
harboring secret reservations.

Gene didn't blame them. He felt the same way. He would stay with 
Zimbardo for the time being, but he would keep a careful eye on the 
situation and look for a way to ensure his personal safety if it 
appeared that the pirate leader had lost touch with reality. The 
pirates were looking for power and prestige, not a suicide mission.



For almost two days the Starmen and the miners had been drifting in 
space, not using power of any kind, afraid that even using lights might 
draw the attention of the vigilant pirates on the asteroid. The 
distance between the ship and the massive iron asteroid with its 
fascinating interior was increasing incrementally, but not quickly 
enough to please Zip. He chafed with impatience.

Mark's first duty once the fourteen men were aboard ship was to 
discover their location. Since the escapees were using no power at all, 
Mark could employ only observation and mathematics to get his estimate. 
He guessed that they were 1,023 miles from the nearest edge of the 
Asteroid Belt and drifting roughly parallel to it.

The Starmen's plan was to head for the nearest SE facility. If Mark's 
estimate of their position was correct, the facility closest to them 
was an unmanned Starlight Enterprise station on O344, a medium-sized 
asteroid coming their direction. As soon as it was safe to use power 
Joe would pilot the alien ship to the station.

"We'll be okay in a few hours, Zip," said Joe. "You got us out of the 
asteroid with food and a ship. We all thought that would be impossible. 
We ought to be able to turn on the energy and get blasting out of here 
before too long."

"I know," responded Zip, with his characteristic furrowed brow. "We're 
caught between taking a chance on being recaptured by the pirates and 
depleting the food. We'll run out of supplies in a couple of days."

"I know-and the closest base is roughly four days away, depending on 
how speedy this beauty proves to be. But we'll make it." Joe went off 
to visit with Mark, who was gazing out of the window at the immense 
spread of the Milky Way.

George St. George came up to Zip, who was sitting alone at a table, 
doing nothing but staring down at his hands. He sat down opposite him; 
when Zip looked up, the miner smiled.

"You've brought us back into the heavens, young Mr. Starman," he said, 
"so you've got no reason to be covered with gloom. You won't get us to 
safety now any faster by worrying."

Zip pursed his lips and looked into St. George's eyes. "The man seems 
to be protected by a shield of innocence all around him," he thought. 
"His base was destroyed, he and his men were captured and taken into a 
massive iron asteroid by the Solar System's greatest enemy, and now 
he's floating in the void with only two days' food left, and he's still 
calm and trying to encourage me the way he encourages his men. Who is 
the real leader of these men? I make the decisions, but he strengthens 
their hearts. He even strengthens my heart."

St. George smiled. Almost as if he could read Zip's mind, he added, 
"Each of us has a gift according to the grace given us, which we are to 
use to benefit others. If it weren't for you, we'd still be locked up 
inside that room-or worse-under the control of Lurton Zimbardo. I have 
my gift, and you have yours, and we both employ our gifts well. We 
haven't come this far to fail now. Our success doesn't depend solely on 
you, you know. Relax and just do your part. There's still a lot to do, 
but the outcome isn't in doubt."

Zip smiled, and before he could say anything St. George had risen and 
strolled to the window where Joe and Mark stood.

All at once, Mark pointed and cried out, "Hey, look at that! Do you see 
what I see?" Several men came to the window and peered out. Zip Foster 
joined them. Joe answered.

"Yes! -the asteroid's moving!"

The dark bulk of the pirates' asteroid, which had loomed so close to 
them for two days, was gradually but visibly moving away. Its 
silhouette had been blocking half their view of the Asteroid Belt and 
the gleaming array of stars behind it, but now, even as they watched, 
its profile diminished and stars were winking into view around its edge.

"They're heading out somewhere-moving that entire asteroid! I wonder 
what's going on?" asked Mark.

"We'll be able to power up before too long, now! We'll be on our way 
ourselves," announced Zip, animatedly. "Soon we can get in touch with 
Starlight. It's been over a week since we've been in contact. We've got 
a lot to tell them." The shadow that had lain over Zip for two days had 
been lifted. "How long until we can turn on the power, Mark? When will 
we be out of the pirates' radar range?"

"Less than an hour, I'd say."

Zip raised his voice so everyone could hear. "We get under way in an 
hour, men!"

It was sooner than that. In 26 minutes, the asteroid was no longer 
visible to the eye. Zip waited a full 45 minutes then turned on the 
ship's power at its lowest setting. Using the radar, he scanned the 
quadrant where the asteroid had last been seen and turned up no object 
of significance. He hadn't expected to.

"That doesn't mean they can't see us," he mused to Mark and Joe. "That 
asteroid is probably sheathed just like their ships. But I think we're 
safe now-safe enough, anyway, to get moving."

"Right. Let's go," said Joe. "I'll jettison the derelict and power up! 
I've been looking forward to this moment!"

Zip ran the power switch up to maximum and commanded everyone to 
prepare for acceleration. Joe ignited the propulsion system. With the 
lanky Starman at the controls the alien ship began its journey toward 
the Asteroid Belt. As the ship began to cruise easily, Zip began to 
think of communicating with Starlight Enterprise.

"Mark, contact SE right away. Fill them in on our recent adventures and 
see if, by any chance, there's a ship closer to us than the base on 
O344."

George St. George spoke up. "What if the pirates overhear your 
transmission, Zip? Won't they know we've escaped and be able to locate 
us?"

"I think it's worth the risk, George. They probably think we're still 
inside the asteroid and won't be looking for us out here. Even if they 
do overhear the transmission, I doubt they'd send some ships after us. 
The distance between us is growing rapidly, and if we have to we've got 
plenty of time to hide in the Belt. I'm worried about our dwindling 
supplies; we need some relief soon, and SE needs our information as 
soon as we can get it to them. Go ahead, Mark."

"I'm on it," said Mark. 

"Provide them with a concise but complete report," Zip went on. "Tell 
them about the destruction of Z25, describe the asteroid with an 
estimate of the number of pirates and their ships, and especially the 
asteroid's location. Don't worry about details of our escape, other 
than to say that we are in an alien spacecraft and heading for O344 
with a minimum of supplies. Ask Sim Sala Bim to send someone to O344 
with the Star Ranger and another ship to take St. George and his men 
back to Ceres or wherever they want to go."

"Got it," said Mark and began to prepare his report. In less than five 
minutes he had sent it, but due to the interplanetary distance he 
didn't expect a response for nearly half an hour.

"Sure wish we had that realtime transmission equipment on board," mused 
Zip out loud, thinking about how his encounter with the pirates had 
begun with the experiment in the control tower in Eagle City. "But I 
guess it'll be a few years before the miniaturization is worked out so 
that spaceships can carry it."

"We'll get to the base a little faster than we thought, Zip," said Joe. 
"This ship is cruising very efficiently. We can learn a lot from it, in 
time." The sleek, forest green cruiser sped through the vacuum, rapidly 
approaching the edge of the Asteroid Belt.



Six hours and 23 minutes after the destruction of the 
atmosphere-generating plant on the edge of the Red Sea on Mars, a small 
iron asteroid struck the plant located just south of the Oxia Palus on 
an open plain about five degrees north of the equator and fifteen 
degrees west of the central meridian. It was a few minutes past 4:00 
a.m. local time. Six miles away was the settlement of Westcott.

Most of the local populace had not heard Lurton Zimbardo's radiocast, 
since it had come in just before midnight. The second asteroid followed 
a near-vertical course and slammed with tremendous force into the 
ground a half mile from the atmosphere-generating plant. The sun rose 
onto a land choked with dust. When the dust settled back to the surface 
about midday, the people of Westcott saw only a crater a mile and a 
half wide. There was no sign that any human artifice had ever existed 
on the spot.

Almost sixteen hours later, on an overcast afternoon in the empty 
northwest, the third asteroid struck. Its target was the atmosphere 
plant located 51 degrees north of the equator and 141 degrees west of 
the central meridian-southwest of a small crater which was the home of 
a town called Morris. It was centrally located for miners, prospectors, 
farmers, arborists, and mobile scientists, who lived near or roamed 
throughout the locale.

By this time Zimbardo's message was known all over the planet and the 
utter destruction of the first two atmosphere generators had shown that 
his threat was to be taken seriously. Morris had been abandoned, and 
its 25,000 residents were in panicky flight to the northeast, opposite 
the plant. Few people saw the asteroid make a direct hit on the two 
billion solar complex.

Seven hours and 12 minutes later, the fourth asteroid demolished the 
atmosphere plant located nine degrees south of the equator and 167 
degrees east of the central meridian. It was evening, and the resulting 
cloud of dust created a sunset of spectacular beauty, with colors 
rippling through the drifting sand like fire seen through a translucent 
curtain.

The final impact occurred in the early darkness hours. The atmosphere 
plant located northeast of Eagle Crater at 26 degrees north of the 
equator and 85 degrees east of the central meridian was instantly 
turned into rubble.

In a thirty-two-hour period, Mars had been scarred by five new craters, 
each one a mile to a mile and a half across. More than ten billion 
solars in damage had been done. Atmosphere generation on the red planet 
could not be restored for at least five or six years.

Much more satisfying to Lurton Zimbardo was the fact that the entire 
population of Mars was held inescapably captive by an hysteria of fear. 
No one doubted that Zimbardo had spoken his threat accurately. The five 
asteroids had arrived unseen until the last few seconds and had 
pulverized their targets with accuracy of less than half a mile of 
error. The fearful populace of Mars awaited the promised communication 
from the pirate leader, in which he would reveal his demands.


15: A Microwave Net

SPACE COMMAND and Starlight Enterprise were filled with intense 
activity. The previous day had been a roller-coaster ride of messages 
from Mars and the Asteroid Belt. First came the dismal news of the 
destruction of the Martian atmosphere-generating plants, one after the 
other. Then just before the tidings that the plant near Eagle City had 
been demolished, the message from the missing Starmen had come into 
Starlight Enterprise. The euphoria with which that word had been 
received was quickly dampened by the ultimatum Lurton Zimbardo had 
issued.

In words similar to those Troy Putnam had used weeks earlier, Zimbardo 
demanded control of Earth's wealth and resources, with specific demands 
for access to Earth's coded defense mechanisms, authority over major 
ports of travel, and power over the major decision-making processes and 
information systems. He closed his threat with the chilling 
announcement that he had already directed a sheathed asteroid more than 
forty miles long into a collision course with Earth. When his demands 
had been met and verified, he would then turn the asteroid aside.

Immediately after receiving the message, the President called a meeting 
in one of his maximum-security offices on Earth. Joining him at the 
table were some of his senior advisors as well as Richard Starlight, 
his chief assistant John Rwakatare, and other representatives of SE. 
Robert Nolan with his chief assistant Beowulf Denn and other 
representatives of Nolan Mining Enterprise filled out the gathering.

"Although he has demanded control of Earth's systems of communication, 
exchange, and security, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that 
Zimbardo's real object is not clear." The President was drawing 
conclusions after a brief introduction of the facts. "It is impossible 
for one man simply to become dictator of the entire planet, no matter 
who he is or what engines of destruction he can call upon. I suspect 
that his aim is other than he has announced, and I am determined not to 
provide the access codes to our most sensitive systems."

There was a slight rustle of movement around the table. Whatever course 
of action was to be decided at this meeting, calling Zimbardo's bluff 
had not been considered by many to be a viable option. The President 
continued.

"His ruination of the atmosphere plants on Mars proves that he is able 
to direct asteroids to targets with high accuracy, and that we are 
unable to detect them. Although the loss of the plants is a severe 
blow, it is not crippling. They can be rebuilt in a few years. At 
worst, the process of terraformation will be delayed for that long. 
Replacement will cost about ten billion solars-obviously a huge amount 
of money, but an amount that Mars can afford. The plants were over a 
century old however, and in the long run replacing the plants will be 
more effective and probably achieve the goal of terraformation faster 
than if we had continued to use the plants that were destroyed. 
Frankly, there were plans already in the works for modernizing the 
plants.

"No, the real damage has been psychological: the people of Earth and 
Mars are terrified. This, undoubtedly, was Zimbardo's major goal in 
destroying the plants, and he has achieved it completely and 
thoroughly. His demands to us are clear, but it is difficult for us to 
perceive what he would achieve, even if we capitulated-which we do not 
intend to do."

Robert Nolan could not contain himself any further, and lurched 
backward as if he had been struck. "You don't intend to cooperate with 
him?" he almost screeched. "But he'll destroy the entire planet if we 
don't! There is no way we can detect an asteroid he's made invisible to 
radar!"

"Dr. Nolan," responded the President, "we believe that we have a method 
which will allow us to locate the asteroid that Zimbardo has directed 
toward Earth. We have a very good chance of locating it and destroying 
it."

"A chance? Mr. President, you're gambling with the very existence of 
life on Earth! If an asteroid forty miles long strikes Earth, it will 
not only cause the extinction of every life form on the planet, there 
is every likelihood that it will crack the Earth's crust! There will be 
no escape! No escape!! Don't you see that we have to cooperate with 
Zimbardo? It will be easier to meet his challenge once he has turned 
away the asteroid!"

The President responded in gentle tones. "You have not yet heard our 
plan, Bob. Believe me, I can sympathize with your quandary, but I am 
simply not going to deal with any evil force as if it had a right to 
negotiate. It doesn't. This has been the principle behind the decisions 
we have made in order to meet the threat of the pirates from the first 
day."

"Principle?" Nolan was almost shouting now. "For your principle you're 
willing to risk the destruction of all life on Earth? That's the evil 
we're facing here!"

"Bob-please listen to what Dr. Hoshino has to tell us. There is a plan. 
Dr. Hoshino?"

Robert Nolan leaned forward, placed his elbows on the table, and 
cradled his head in his hands. He was trembling. Richard Starlight 
looked over at his friend and colleague and felt very badly for him. He 
knew that Robert was under a tremendous strain. Richard agreed that the 
fate of the Earth was at stake and would probably be decided at this 
meeting. He was tremendously anxious himself, but he was eager to hear 
what Dr. Hoshino had to say.

Dr. Stephen Hoshino was a brilliant astrophysicist whom the President 
had commanded to work on a plan to counteract Zimbardo's chief 
weapon-the radar bender. He was a slight man of Japanese ancestry who, 
in spite of his compactness, exuded power. Even his smallest movements 
were made with precision. Although he was only in his middle thirties, 
from his late teens he had been granted virtual carte blanche in his 
research. Even at that young age, his genius had become known 
throughout the inhabited Solar System. His voice was calm and 
mellifluous.

"Thank you, Mr. President. My team and I have been working around the 
clock for eight days to develop a system for detecting an object which 
is invisible to radar. We have succeeded. The theory was not difficult 
to develop, but the method provided somewhat of a challenge. We have 
now designed a technique for locating a body as small as, very roughly, 
two-thirds the size of the average spacecraft, by detecting its 
gravitational field."

As he spoke, many of those listening to him felt the level of their 
anxiety diminishing slightly. Robert Nolan lifted his head. Though his 
expression was drawn, he was paying attention.

"We must manufacture millions of tiny probes and release these into 
space in a systematic fashion over many millions of cubic miles. Their 
design is quite simple. The laboratories and manufacturing centers of 
organizations like Starlight Enterprise, Nolan Mining Enterprise, and 
other companies can create these probes in vast quantities very 
quickly, using robotic techniques. Each probe will have gravity 
instrumentation. Using the microwaves naturally occurring in space, 
they will be connected by a vast neural network and thus act as a 
single instrument, with all data being fed back to various information 
centers.

"With the data from these probes we should be able to detect any 
massive objects in places where they shouldn't be. Certainly a large 
asteroid cannot be hidden. The very size of the asteroid with which 
Zimbardo threatens our planet will work in our favor, since detecting 
such a large object can be achieved easier and sooner than if he sent, 
for example, a number of small asteroids such as those that struck 
Mars."

"Where will the probes be deployed, Dr. Hoshino?" asked Richard. "Our 
time is short, very short indeed, if we have to manufacture, launch, 
and deploy the probes in time to locate and then destroy the asteroid. 
Even if we produce millions of probes, as you have said, we have 
millions of cubic miles of space to search through. In the time 
available, even trillions of the little probes can't help much. 
Theoretically, the asteroid can be anywhere. There are asteroids inside 
the orbit of Mercury and outside the orbit of Jupiter. But I suspect 
that you already have an idea where we are to search."

The President answered. "When Zimbardo sent his first message to Mars, 
evidence of his tampering with the Martian communication system was 
discovered. This allowed us to trace how his tampering was done and 
therefore where the signal came from-at least in a general direction. 
After he sent his second message, the one to Earth yesterday evening, 
the signal was traced again. We have learned that his base is moving 
toward Earth and we have an idea of the speed his base is moving and 
its direction. The information the Starmen provided confirms what we 
had learned through our investigations.

"Of course, our figures are somewhat imprecise, and we still have a lot 
of searching to do, but we have an excellent chance of locating him. It 
is highly logical that the asteroid he harnessed is from a place in the 
Belt close to his own asteroid. From what the Starmen reported, he just 
didn't have time to locate an asteroid as large as he claims to have 
launched toward Earth from any place too distant from his own base. The 
probes will therefore be cast in a net in the space between Earth and 
the area of the Asteroid Belt in which the pirates' asteroid was found."

Richard Starlight, Robert Nolan, and others had a number of technical 
questions for Dr. Hoshino regarding the manufacture and deployment of 
the probes and the time schedule necessary to achieve their goal. At 
the end of the discussion it was agreed that the two companies, with 
others, would begin to manufacture the probes according to Stephen 
Hoshino's design. Launch was planned for five days later, with 
deployment six to seven days after that.



"O344 coming up on the screen, Zip," announced Mark.

"Not a moment too soon!" shouted Joe. "Food at last!"

It had been a week since the fourteen men aboard the alien spaceship 
had left the pirates' asteroid. They had been traveling under power for 
four days. Although they had been very sparing in their consumption of 
the food, they had run out two days earlier. A few ounces of water per 
person remained in the containers; it had been carefully measured and 
rationed to last the entire journey to O344. Everyone was thirsty but 
no one was in danger of becoming dehydrated. All, however, suffered 
from the pangs of hunger. Mark had a headache that blurred his vision 
and made his responses slow.

"If it's on the screen, we ought to touch down in a few minutes," said 
Zip. He was moving slowly and often sat down with his eyes closed. Of 
the three Starmen, Joe seemed to be the least affected by the two days' 
lack of food. The miners were lying down on their bunks. Other than 
Joe, only George St. George had exhibited much energy in the previous 
two days, coming forward to the flight deck every few hours to chat 
with the Starmen.

Zip asked George to prepare his men for touchdown. Deceleration had 
been gradual, so there was no need for the men to strap into the 
acceleration couches. However, they would need to be in spacesuits in 
order to leave the ship and enter the SE facility.

An asteroid about ten miles across loomed up on the screen. Joe circled 
it slowly.

"There it is," he said as a landing pad came into view. A small dome 
next to the pad was barely visible, since the landscape that had been 
artificially shaped was on the dark side of the asteroid, away from the 
sun. The site on O344 was one of dozens of such places marked on the 
navigational maps. They were unmanned stations stocked with supplies 
and maintained for explorers, scientists, and others in the employ of 
Starlight Enterprise. They contained large quantities of food, water, 
and other basic necessities, and provided rustic living facilities.

It didn't take Joe long to land the ship on the surface of the small 
asteroid. It settled down gently just a few yards from the dome.

"I'll need someone to go into the supply cache and get some bolts, Zip. 
This ship doesn't have any to keep it fixed to the asteroid-or if it 
does, I haven't found the controls for them. I'll have to stay aboard 
until the ship is secure."

"Okay, Joe," Zip responded. "Great flying. You pilot this ship as if 
you were trained in it."

"That's my job," said Joe. "Don't take too long, though. I'm hungry!"

The men went through the ship's airlock, made the brief walk across the 
surface of the asteroid, and entered the dome. The dome contained a 
small airlock leading to a ladder that descended about 15 feet into the 
asteroid. Zip asked two of St. George's men to locate bolts and go back 
up to clamp their ship to the surface. Within minutes the alien ship 
was fastened down tightly and all fourteen men were inside the supply 
station.

"Food! Toothbrushes! Showers! Clean clothes!" shouted various voices as 
the men scattered to look over the spartan facility.

"Food!" shouted Joe, and headed for the pantry where George St. George 
was already standing.

"Relax, Starman!" said St. George, placing his hand on Joe's chest. 
"You three men have worked without rest to get us here. Just sit down. 
Let us show our gratitude by fixing up the best meal this larder can 
make possible."

The three Starmen were only too ready to comply. They allowed their 
tired bodies to sink slowly into the rest sofas, the minimal gravity 
nestling them gently into the concave surface. The miners who were not 
assisting in the preparation of the meal lay down on bunks in the 
sleeping quarters.

"I don't know if I need sleep or food more," said Mark. He had been at 
the navigation and communications stations almost without respite for 
all of his waking hours-and he had slept little. Zip had relieved Joe 
at the helm some of the time, but the trip had not been an easy one. 
They had made the journey as quickly as they could in an unfamiliar 
ship, having to keep watch at all times against a surprise attack from 
any pirate ships. Their communications with SE had been limited only to 
those most urgent, to minimize their exposure to any possible enemies.

SE had made an immediate and joyful response to the Starmen's initial 
communication. That had been followed within an hour by a report to 
inform them of Lurton Zimbardo's ultimatum about a large asteroid on a 
collision course with Earth. The latter message had draped the men in a 
somber mood. SE had also assured them that a rescue mission was under 
way from Ceres, and several ships, including their own Star Ranger, 
were due in nineteen hours. The Starmen and the miners planned to put 
that time to good use by resting.

Under St. George's direction, three of the miners put together a feast 
of canned goods. St. George made a blend of canned meat, potatoes, and 
vegetable soups, and warmed it to create a hot stew that was more than 
passable. Dried biscuits, rehydrated and quick-baked, were added to the 
feast. A huge pot of strong, brewed coffee soon added to the savory 
smells coming from the kitchen.

"It's ready!" called out Sabbath George. He and the others brought huge 
serving bowls to a large table that was situated in the middle of the 
room, adjacent to the kitchen. Places had been previously set.

Tired as the men were, it took them only seconds to assemble at the 
table. George said a few words of thanks and passed the first bowl to 
his right where Joe was seated. Joe grasped the large serving spoon. 
The bowl was steaming with the mixture and wisps rose lazily from the 
ladle as it made several trips from serving bowl to Joe's plate. After 
he had dished out at least two pounds of stew, he shoved the bowl on to 
the man at his right and took two biscuits from the central supply.

"Only two biscuits, Joe?" prodded Mark. "Has hunger made you too weak 
to eat?"

"I'll show you whether I'm too weak to eat. Watch this!" He shoveled a 
heaping spoonful of stew into his mouth. His chin lifted a notch, his 
eyes closed, and a satisfied moan escaped his closed lips. He slowly 
lowered the spoon to the table and lifted both hands as if he were 
about to embrace someone.

"Taste good?" asked Zip, reaching for the aromatic bowl as it came his 
way.

Joe chewed and swallowed. "Someone back at the Academy told me once 
that there was no such thing as a dumb question. He was wrong. That was 
one." Joe turned to George. "George, this is delicious! I've never 
tasted anything better!"

George glanced over at the food cans that had been in storage for 
several years. "A hungry man will enjoy anything. A very hungry man 
will consider even canned goods to be ambrosia." But by that time the 
serving bowl had gotten around to George, and he stopped to fill his 
own plate.


16: A Dark Spirit

TO STARMAN David Foster, it was a soft, rainy morning. He had just 
awakened after a night on the SE supply asteroid O344, and the only 
sound was the faint hum of the operating system. He wrapped himself a 
little more snugly into his blanket and kept his eyes shut. His 
imagination easily turned the murmur into the soft sound of rain 
sifting through the leaves of the tree outside his bedroom window on 
his uncle's farm in West Virginia. With slightly more effort he could 
imagine a drizzle drumming lightly on the wooden shingles above and 
drifting out onto the empty fields in the early autumn days shortly 
after harvest.

His Uncle Francis and Aunt Clare were dear to David. Although he had 
been raised on the Moon, close to his father's work, he had been born 
in Clark's Bridge Crossing, the village near their farm. From the time 
he was old enough to show any notice of the world around him, David had 
loved the stars. Even now, he loved interplanetary travel, exploration, 
and adventure better than anything, but in his heart was an 
emotionally-intense place where he kept his memories of the West 
Virginia farm where he had spent so much of his childhood.

The small towns and family-owned farms had become indispensable to the 
rebuilding of America after the Collapse. In the United States the 
nuclear devastation of those horrifying years had been severe. Most 
major cities had been destroyed, but much of the outlying and rural 
areas had survived. In the latter half of the 21st century new 
leadership arose from these areas, and the American spirit, which for a 
hundred years had gradually been eclipsed by special-interest groups, 
lobbyists, fringe organizations, and major corrupt economic interests, 
was largely purified. The "old values" became popular again, if not 
always followed. A generation of leaders arose with an appeal similar 
to that enjoyed by the "log cabin" presidents. A candidate who claimed 
to have basic values and homespun philosophy was guaranteed to win 
support from the remaining American population.

With his eyes still closed, David smiled. He tried to imagine the aroma 
of his Aunt Clare's freshly-ground coffee coming from the kitchen, 
mingled with the smell of hot-off-the-griddle blueberry pancakes. The 
drizzle was stopping, and the dawnlight of the newly-risen sun was 
sending sparkles through the light rainy haze that shrouded the fields 
and crowning the eastern fields with the arc of a rainbow. The haze 
would soon burn off, leaving the dark earth sodden and leaves dripping. 
He smiled even wider. He could hear his aunt's voice now...

"Come and get it, Starmen!" pealed the voice of George St. George. "Got 
some more of that engine-oil coffee steaming away, and I managed to 
whip together some biscuits from some powdered stuff I found!"

Zip's eyes shot open and took in the neutral walls of the cubicle where 
he, Mark, and Joe had slept. The faint hum of O344's system was drowned 
out now with the rustle of human movement as the asteroid miners 
gathered around the table.

"There's some sort of orangy liquid I mixed up from some other powder, 
too! Probably has some good vitamins in it!"

In minutes the Starmen and miners were tucking in to the best that 
George St. George could do with the supplies at hand.

After breakfast, the Starmen sat in the lounge. Mark was poring over 
the printout that he had taken from the power plant on the pirates' 
asteroid. He had a digital copy of much of the layout of the asteroid, 
and information on the power plants, propulsion structures, and 
sheathing equipment. The papers were filled with charts, maps, and 
diagrams; a few sections were written in an unintelligible, alien 
language. He couldn't even tell which symbols were letters and which 
were numbers.

"I hope they didn't use a pictorial alphabet like Chinese," said Joe, 
looking over Mark's shoulder.

"No," the big Starman answered. "There are plenty of recurring symbols, 
so I assume it's a language like our own, with letters and words. 
Somebody will be able to decipher this without too much difficulty. 
It's far beyond my skill, though." He rubbed his chin. "But I can 
recognize a lot of the machinery."

Zip was sitting nearby. He hadn't spoken much during breakfast. The 
images of the farm pulled at him again. "Mark, Joe," he began. He 
hesitated a moment while they turned to him. They could see he was 
puzzling through something, and waited patiently for him to continue. 
"SE says that Zimbardo has targeted Earth with an asteroid over forty 
miles long. What'll that do to home?"

Mark was suddenly deeply saddened. Zip always referred to the Moon as 
home. He spoke softly.

"One of my professors at Starlight University talked about a study 
conducted in the early 21st century. Back then, scientists started 
becoming concerned about asteroid impacts, and they built a complex 
computer model to see what would happen if a large asteroid struck 
Earth."

"What did they find?" whispered Joe.

 "Well, the model found that, depending on the angle of entry, the 
impact can produce a massive corridor of incineration ahead of the 
impact site. In that area, just about all life ends in minutes. But the 
model predicted other changes that destroyed nearly all life on Earth 
within a few years."

"Like what?" Zip's voice was dusky.

"I'm sounding like a textbook," complained Mark.

"Go on," insisted Zip.

Mark closed his eyes and tilted his head back. "A few hours after the 
impact, clouds of noxious gases billow up and block out the sun for 
months. Temperatures drop drastically all over the Earth and corrosive 
acid snow and rain fall. These short-term effects alone-intense cold, 
darkness, and acid rain and snow-kill the plants and photosynthetic 
plankton, the base of most food chains. Herbivores starve, and then the 
carnivores that feed on the herbivores starve. This is enough to kill 
most of the remaining human life on the planet. After the clouds clear, 
the atmosphere is thick with carbon dioxide from fires and decaying 
matter. Then the carbon dioxide contributes to global warming that 
lasts for ages."

Tears slowly escaped from Zip's closed eyes and made tracks down his 
cheeks. He remembered that when he was small his aunt and uncle had 
taken him on a two-hour flight in their small plane to the place 
closest to their home where there was a field of nuclear devastation. 
His first view of the terrain beyond the boundary had been indelibly 
burned into his seven-year-old mind. The cities and towns surrounded by 
fields, orchards, streams, ponds, and woods had rapidly tapered off 
below a slight rise into a land of gray, utterly lifeless, gasping dust 
thatreached as far southeastward as the eye could see. The center of 
the field had been the nation's capital, the third of the great 
American cities to be destroyed in the holocaust of 2048.

"How big was the asteroid they modeled?" asked Joe.

"About six to ten miles across," said Mark.

"And the one Zimbardo has aimed at Earth is forty miles long?"

"Bigger. A little bigger than that," answered Zip quietly. "Bigger." He 
felt a chilling darkness come over him, almost as if he had walked into 
an inky refrigerator. He shivered uncontrollably for a moment, then sat 
up and took control of himself.

"Today we get the Star Ranger back!" he announced in a clear voice. 
"and we're heading back to Earth! Be ready for immediate departure!"



An immense metal and glass wheel, half a mile in diameter, rotated 
slowly in the jeweled heavens. It was the primary manufacturing and 
launching headquarters of Nolan Mining Enterprise. It orbited the Moon 
about 500 miles above the surface.

Robert Nolan was burning with a zealous flame of energy. Although often 
close to burning out, he never went over the edge. His apparently 
bottomless resources had allowed him to achieve remarkable things in 
twenty years. Now he was in the command bubble that lifted like an 
antenna from the heart of the space station. A tower two hundred yards 
long lifted out from the plane of NME's manufacturing and launching 
facility. At its end was a large observation and control center that 
commanded a view of every aspect of one side of the plant.

"Launch in forty-three minutes exactly," said an operative in the 
command bubble. Nolan stood, looking intently over the man's shoulder 
at the screen in front of him. Nolan's eyes shifted repeatedly back and 
forth from the screen to the actuality that lay spectacularly open to 
view before him.

"Sir?" said another technician, turning toward Nolan. "The Lux Mundi 
has now completed docking." The Lux Mundi was Richard Starlight's 
personal spacecraft.

"Excellent, John," said Robert Nolan. "Please have Mr. Starlight sent 
up here without delay."

"Yes sir." The technician turned back to his station and issued 
commands. In less than four minutes, an elevator brought Richard 
Starlight into the center of the command bubble of Nolan Mining 
Enterprise. He stepped out onto the floor and looked around quickly.

"Over here, Rick," said Nolan, stepping toward his friend.

"Bob! Good to see you!" The men shook hands briefly. "All went well at 
our end," Richard whispered.

Nolan stepped back and spread his hands toward the launching arena of 
the space station.

"Terrific news," he said. "We'll be launching in about forty minutes."

The two men went into Nolan's office and sealed it. Though everything 
was visible through clear partitions, no one could hear what went on 
inside.

"I'm so sorry I fell apart at that meeting, Rick," Robert began.

"Don't give it a thought, Bob. You've done very well for the project 
since then. This is a great offering you're making."

"The least we can do, in addition to making as many of the microwave 
probes as we could, is provide these freighters."

"Ahead of schedule, too, by a little bit. All the companies pulled 
together and made the probes to Dr. Hoshino's specifications. I like 
his design. His plan should work very well, very well indeed!"

"It's a wonderful design, Rick! Dr. Hoshino is a genius to a degree 
above everyone else of this generation. We ought to be able to locate 
any asteroid that Lurton Zimbardo throws at us. But stopping it is a 
different problem."

"If we find it in time, that shouldn't be too hard, either."

The two friends talked for a little longer, then went out to watch the 
launch. Seven unmanned NME freighters were prepared to carry Earth's 
hope into space. They would be accompanied by a dozen armed ships 
supplied by Space Command. The rendezvous of freighters and warships 
was only a half-hour's flight time from the space station. Then they 
would proceed on the eight-day journey to the site of deployment.

In a private office and laboratory below, Robert Nolan's chief 
assistant Beowulf Denn finished making a voice recording of the details 
of the launch. He included the number of freighters, the number and 
type of Space Command warships appointed to guard them, their course, 
hour of departure, and timing of the deployment of the probes.

When he had finished the recording, he inserted the disk into a 
computer independent of the NME computer system and speeded up its 
contents so that the entire message was less than 0.03 seconds long. He 
then encrypted it and transmitted the result on a tight beam 
communicator to coordinates in space which he kept only in his head. 
After the message had been sent, he destroyed the disk and removed all 
signs on his computer that the action had occurred. The message he sent 
could be read only one time and then would erase itself, leaving no 
trace at the receiving end that it had ever existed.



Seven ships had arrived at O344. The Starmen were outside, having sped 
through the airlock with the first news that the ships from Ceres were 
at hand. They stood on the edge of the landing zone and watched the 
ships come close to O344. Only the dark red Star Ranger and one other 
ship touched down. Sim Sala Bim was the first to debark.

"So pleased to see you young men are safe!" he spouted. "So much has 
happened in these three weeks! Here is your Star Ranger, ready for 
duty!" The Indian was excited. Zip had shaken off his own dark mood and 
was rising to the challenge. The other two Starmen were eager to lift 
off and get back into the battle against Lurton Zimbardo.

"Nice to see you, Sim!" cried out Zip, as he and the man from Ceres 
shook hands through their spacesuits. "George and his men will be ready 
in a moment. They are wonderful people! Salt of the earth types, though 
I'll bet none of them has been on Earth for years!"

"We'll get them back to Ceres safely, don't worry about that!" advised 
Sim. "You just go on and stop this crazy fellow."

"Let's get going, Starmen!" urged Zip. They had already made their 
farewells to the asteroid miners, and had decided to leave the alien 
ship on O344 for research in a less anxious time. Joe had sealed it and 
seen that it was securely clamped to the asteroid's surface.

Within a few minutes, the Starmen were aboard the Star Ranger in their 
accustomed places.

Just before they lifted off, Zip turned on his communicator.

"George," he said. "Thanks for your friendship. You gave me a gift I 
don't think you're even aware of."

"Oh yes I am too aware of it, David." responded the cheery voice. "The 
gift of confidence. Do your Latin and find out what 'confidence' really 
means. Blessing and peace go with you men." A chorus of voices sounded 
in the background, also offering farewells.

Zip signed off. In minutes O344 was behind them.



When Lurton Zimbardo had first announced to Earth that he had aimed a 
huge asteroid through space on a collision course, the news of 
impending doom spread over the farthest reaches of the globe, bringing 
with it hysteria and despair. Pockets of unrest and violence sprang up 
but the phenomenon was short-lived. The memory of the Collapse was too 
recent, and the populace would not permit violence to prevail-but there 
was nothing to take its place. Cities, nations, and then continents 
ground to a standstill as people left their jobs and homes and wandered 
from place to place aimlessly. The thought of utter, unprecedented 
destruction for the whole planet, the home of mankind, struck at the 
very heart of the people. The very elderly, who remembered the worst 
days of the Collapse, felt their spirits quail within them.

It was a time such as the world had never seen before. In the years to 
come it became known as The Day the Earth Stood Still. No one knew 
where to flee, how to flee, or even if fleeing could do any good. After 
a time the panic quieted down to a heartless agonizing despair, and a 
heavy, dark spirit fell over the planet.



"Crass, Lather, Bolcher! Get your men and go! The Earthmen have 
launched their detection equipment!" Lurton Zimbardo was giving orders 
over the intercom from the control center of his asteroid. Moments 
earlier the pirate leader had received a message which informed him of 
the launch time of Earth's freighters and other details of Earth's 
defense plan.

"There are seven freighters accompanied by twelve Space Command 
warships! Each of you take five ships. Find the convoy and destroy the 
freighters! At all cost, destroy the freighters!"

Zimbardo slammed down the communicator and watched his men scurry for 
their ships. At the speed they could travel, they should be able to 
intercept the convoy in about a week-a full day before optimal site for 
deployment of the microwave probes. Zimbardo had little doubt of the 
outcome of the encounter. Earth had no idea that the plans were known 
to him, and the pirate ships were invisible to their radar.


17: The Enemy Revealed

FOR NEARLY seven days, the convoy of seven NME freighters and twelve 
Space Command warships had sped away from the Earth-Moon system. The 
warships flew in a spherical configuration about five miles in 
diameter, at the center of which were the unmanned freighters in 
compact formation. The urgency of the mission gave the convoy no choice 
but to utilize the most direct route to the site of deployment, so that 
the probes could be put into action at the earliest possible time. 
There was simply no time to follow any evasive flight plan. On the 
success of the microwave net rode the hope of Earth's survival from the 
threat of impact with the enormous asteroid Lurton Zimbardo had 
unleashed.

"There they are!" announced Mr. Lather, pilot of the Silver Cloud, as 
he looked at the radar screen. He was followed closely by five other 
pirate spacecraft. Two other groups of six pirate ships were nearby, 
also searching the area of space in front of them for the convoy. 
"Inform Bolcher and Crass and give them the coordinates. Tell them that 
since I was the first to locate the freighters, I will attack first. 
Their ships will follow me according to our plan."

"Yes sir, Mr. Lather," responded the Silver Cloud's navigator. The 
communication was completed and the details of the plan agreed upon. 
Then the intership communications system was deactivated. The pirates' 
ships, being sheathed to radar, were equally invisible to each other as 
to the men of Space Command, but each pirate captain knew where the 
others were supposed to be. The ships usually communicated by 
closed-system radio and thereby kept in close contact with each other, 
but now they could not risk revealing their position by engaging in 
radio contact when they were in the proximity of other ships.

Moments went by without a word being said. Lather could feel the 
adrenaline surging through him. He was eager to give the command to 
attack.

"One minute!" he announced to his own crew. "All hands prepare for 
battle!" After the designated time had elapsed, he shouted, "Go!"

Followed by five spaceships protected by the radar bender, he sped 
undetected through the sphere of Space Command warships. On the screen 
before him the massive freighters loomed up. "Fire!" he shouted. "Fire! 
Fire!"

A laser cannon locked onto one freighter and ripped open its hull. In 
seconds the Silver Cloud was past it and through the other side of the 
sphere. Behind him came another pirate ship, and then another. As each 
passed through the sphere, it fired laser cannons at the freighters.

None of the lasers struck a vital point in any freighter's fuel system, 
but the potent cannons, each set on highest power, ripped into the 
unmanned ships and tore them open to the vacuum. Lather's six ships 
shot through the sphere of guard ships without being detected or even 
shot it, but none of the freighters had exploded. Lather cursed when he 
saw that the damage he had inflicted was not crippling.

The Space Command warships were immediately aware of the attack and 
began to scatter the freighters by remote control. Some freighters 
decelerated, others accelerated, still others moved away from the 
center. Now the pirates would have a more difficult challenge to 
destroy the NME ships.

As his fleet circled, Lather waited to see what Bolcher's ships would 
do. He knew where Bolcher was supposed to be but could not communicate 
with him without revealing his position to the warships of Space 
Command. Lather could only watch the screen.

Suddenly one of the freighters exploded into incandescent fury. The 
detonation destroyed the two freighters closest to the one that 
Bolcher's ship had hit. Within seconds a fourth freighter erupted into 
flame as its fuel system ignited. The three remaining freighters began 
to weave in a random pattern, and the Space Command warships began to 
close in, reducing the window of access to the center of the field.

Crass' ships began to zoom toward the remaining freighters, laser 
cannons ready. Being the most experienced pilot, Crass was confident 
that his team could eliminate the last three ships. Coming in at a fast 
clip, each pirate ship only seconds after its predecessor, Crass' crew 
strafed the freighters, scoring two direct hits. 

With a grin of satisfaction, Lather saw that he would have one more 
chance to attack. The protective warships had drawn into a very tight 
formation to protect the last freighter. Its hulk was already torn with 
a long rip, but its engine still worked and it responded to controls. 
The freighter turned and twisted in a random, spiraling forward motion 
with the warships close around it. Lather brought the Silver Cloud in 
for the kill.

Shooting smoothly through an opening in the protecting ships' 
formation, he saw his target and fired. The last freighter blew up 
almost in his face. All seven freighters-and their contents-had been 
turned into diminutive pieces of whirling space junk. The Silver Cloud 
sped through the detritus and passed the far boundary of warships. As 
soon as he had passed the last Space Command ship, three of them fired 
at him almost at once. Though he was invisible to radar, he was visible 
to the eye at the moment he was close to the exploding freighter.

One Space Command laser pierced the Silver Cloud-a narrow but tight 
beam. The shaft of weaponlight punctured the crew's living quarters, 
and air began to escape from the pirates' spacecraft. Automatic seals 
quickly stopped the leak and Lather sped on. The exultation he had felt 
at having fired the final destructive bolt had instantly changed into a 
cold dread at his narrow escape. Followed by the other pirate ships, he 
sped on, back toward the great asteroid where Lurton Zimbardo awaited 
news of their successful mission. 

Commander Benjamin Bennett of the Space Command ship Ignis sat 
motionless for ten minutes after the last freighter had blown up. He 
was a topflight career space pilot who governed one of the few standard 
Space Command Fleets of Twelve. His black hair showed no signs of gray. 
Because of his unspotted record and eminent trustworthiness, he had 
been given the responsibility for guarding the freighters. Usually 
looking much younger than his forty-one years, now he appeared much 
older.

No one approached him. Then he spoke, as if into the air.

"I suppose the pirates are gone now."

"So it would appear, sir," said a crewman.

"Obviously they weren't concerned with destroying us-just the 
freighters. I suppose in the long run it amounts to the same thing, 
though." No one responded. "Please raise headquarters and hand me the 
communicator." A crew member complied. Commander Bennett took the 
communicator. His message was terse but complete: pirates had attacked 
the convoy and all seven freighters had been lost.

Twelve minutes later the news came into Starlight Enterprise and was 
tranferred immediately to Richard Starlight, who was at work in his 
office. He finished listening to the message, then turned and looked 
out over the stark moonscape. Slowly, he smiled.



The next day, just after noon, Richard was again in his office. Joining 
him for lunch were John Rwakatare, Robert Nolan, Beowulf Denn, and 
Commander John Lewis and a few other visitors from Space Command. 
Though the food was delicious, the meal was a dismal affair. Long faces 
and few words expressed the atmosphere of the gathering.

Richard, however, and Robert seemed not to share the gloom. Richard was 
an attentive host, carefully seeing to his guests' needs. "A little 
more water, John?" he asked, offering the crystal decanter. "Could you 
please pass the biscuits, Robert? Thank you. Good, aren't they?"

"Yes, Rick, they are, especially for biscuits made on the Moon," 
responded the head of NME. "Your chef is highly skilled."

Beowulf Denn couldn't take it any more. "You seem awfully lighthearted 
about everything, Richard," he said in a tone that verged almost on 
disrespect. Richard smiled but said nothing.

When the lunch things had been cleared away, Richard spoke.

"Thank you for coming, gentlemen. I apologize for not sharing your 
distress. Please forgive me for what must appear to be an appalling 
lack of empathy. When you learn why I have brought you here, you will 
forgive me, I think. I am expecting a message any moment now, and I 
wanted you to be here when it came in. It is coming from the commander 
of a large fleet of Starlight Enterprise ships." Richard glanced at 
Robert. The two friends shared a subtle smile.

"Encrypted message from Captain Marks-Owens, sir," came an artificial, 
mellow voice through the high-level communication system.

"Ah!" said Richard. "Transmit to my office."

The large screen on the wall behind Richard lit up. He turned his 
chair. The visage of a tall and slender woman appeared, with high 
cheekbones and honey-dark hair drawn back and held in place with a 
small circlet.

"Captain Mary Marks-Owens on the Starlight Enterprise ship Tempest, 
reporting on top security beam to Richard Starlight. Starlight fleet is 
in place. There were no incidents, and we are ready for your command, 
sir."

Richard smiled widely and said clearly, "Excellent work, Mary! Deploy 
the probes immediately!"

Beowulf Denn choked. "What is this?" he burst out.

"Surprised, eh?" said Richard jocularly, turning his chair back to the 
table. "Of course, she won't get the message for about ten minutes. But 
when she does, we'll be able to say, 'mission accomplished'!"

"What is this?" Commander Lewis echoed Beowulf Denn.

"It was Robert's idea, really," began Richard, "and he ought to be 
telling the tale, but he is too modest to do so. Robert and I cooked up 
the plan between us and told no one else. Just in case there was a leak 
somewhere-and apparently there was!-Robert made a fuss about wanting to 
offer his freighters to convey the probes to the deployment site. He 
offered rather expensive freighters for service. Robert felt badly 
about, well, about making a scene when we met with the President and 
wanted to make up for it."

Robert glanced down at the table so as not to meet anyone's eyes, but 
it was evident that the success of his plan was deeply gratifying to 
him.

"The NME freighters were decoys. The real probes were sent out on SE 
freighters to different spots along the face of deployment. They were 
sent out without any fanfare whatever on the normal delivery schedule 
we follow for all shipments to Mars and the Asteroid Belt. It would 
never have done, anyway, to send the probes out in a tight bunch as the 
seven NME freighters; deployment must be simultaneously effected from 
several sites, and this is the command I just gave Captain Marks-Owens.

"If the pirates took the bait, then they would go back to their base 
believing that they had stopped us. And if they didn't know about our 
plans or the decoy, well, no harm done. Deployment would still go on as 
scheduled. That's about two minutes from now."

The visitors were stunned. "Why, that's terrific!" stammered Commander 
Lewis. "No one else knew about this? Not even the President?"

"No one," said Richard. "Only Robert and I. And it's a good thing we 
did it that way, too. Without the decoy, the launch would have gone as 
planned with everyone knowing about it. As it is, we're safe now."

"Not only that-" contributed John Rwakatare in his deep bass voice, 
"we've learned something of immense value. There is a leak somewhere. 
Someone informed the pirates of the launch from NME."

"Yes, there's that," said Robert Nolan with a sigh, finally speaking 
up. "But for now, deployment of the probes will take place 
successfully. We'll have to check for the leak, and I initiated a 
careful search as soon as we received news of the attack."

Richard turned back toward the screen. "Computer," he said. "Give me a 
tie-in to the master control aboard the Tempest." The screen showed a 
scene in space.

"There is a delay, of course, but the feed is continuous. Deployment of 
the probes is taking place about now, but we won't see the results for 
about ten minutes." Time passed.

"Coming up on the time now," announced Richard a little later, breaking 
into the light conversation that was going on around the table. All 
heads turned toward the screen.

"This is a map of the expanse of the site of the deployment. This is 
not the actual scene, of course; it is a computer enhancement, 
programmed to show us what is actually happening."

From twelve sites at once, scattered about evenly throughout the area, 
small points began to glow. The points marked the locations of the SE 
freighters that had carried the real probes. Simultaneously from every 
point emerged a starburst of lines, each one a fine, golden strand of 
light. 

"Dr. Hoshino's design propels each probe at about one-twentieth the 
speed of light. Complete deployment should take about an hour and a 
half."

The men waited nervously. Some browsed Richard's books and others 
peered through his small telescope at the moonscape. Occasionally two 
or three would come together for quiet discussion.

On the screen, the golden lines gradually lengthened. From time to time 
one would burst into a flower of lines like summer fireworks, and then 
later each of those lines extended and burst again.

When deployment was complete, the entire screen was filled with a 
complex pattern of golden points, like dawn-illuminated mist hanging in 
a huge spider's web.

"Success!" said Richard quietly, but his voice trembled with 
excitement. "Captain Marks-Owens will now initiate the program that 
will unify the probes into a single system. At the same time, she will 
enter a program that will allow the system to read the gravitational 
forces attendant upon every object within its range. The known 
asteroids and other heavenly bodies and the scheduled flights of 
spacecraft will be filtered out. What will be left will be the 
positions of unknown craft and any uncharted natural objects." As he 
spoke, the web began to shimmer in dozens of places, each the site of 
an object with enough mass to ripple the gravitational-detecting field 
of the net.

"Ah! Now the known ships are being filtered out," Richard observed as 
many of the ripples disappeared. In a moment, he leaped to his feet.

"There it is! There it is!" he shouted. He ran to the screen. "Look! 
Here are the pirates' ships that attacked Robert's freighters 
yesterday!" He pointed to a small ripple in the pattern and scanned the 
readings at the bottom of the screen. "Yes, eighteen ships. Here are 
their masses provided down here. And over here," his finger swept 
across the screen to a large ripple in the upper center, "is the 
asteroid coming our way!

"Computer! Extrapolate the course of this object"-he gave the 
particulars-"and provide information on its trajectory."

In eight seconds the voice of the computer spoke. "Object is a natural 
body of approximately 20,625 trillion tons, currently traveling at a 
rate of approximately 280,000 miles per hour. If present speed and 
course are maintained, object will fly by the Earth. Closest approach 
will be attained in 15 days, 8 hours, 3 minutes, 14 seconds at a 
distance of approximately 10,689 miles."

There was silence in Richard's office for over a minute. Then someone 
said, "It's going to miss."


18: Collision Course!

EXHAUSTED with relief, the party broke up. The men from Space Command 
left the Starlight Enterprise plant and returned to their headquarters. 
Robert Nolan and Beowulf Denn lifted off from a launching deck not far 
from Richard's office and set course for the space station that was the 
central facility for Nolan Mining Enterprise.

Richard had already given orders that ships from Starlight Enterprise 
be assigned the immediate task of pursuing and capturing the eighteen 
pirate ships that had destroyed NME's decoy freighters the day before. 
The SE freighters that had actually carried the probes into space had 
been joined by SE ships gathered quietly from various sources during 
the previous week. They had converged during the journey so that many 
were in place throughout the area of the search, ready to respond to 
any orders that might come.

Inside many of them were the Firewasp fighters SE produced for use in 
the Asteroid Belt. The Firewasps were small, tremendously fast and 
amazingly maneuverable one-man ships that had been concentrated in 
several SE bases in the Asteroid Belt. They had been named after a 
menacing insect found in certain hostile swamps on Mars. The tiny craft 
served mostly as a deterrent, since smugglers and other lawless types 
avoided any settlement that showed it was ready to defend itself 
against marauders.

Commander John Lewis was to issue similar orders to Space Command ships 
in the vicinity of the microwave net. There were enough SE ships close 
to the course the pirate fleet was taking that Firewasps could be 
launched to intercept the pirate ships within an hour.

John Rwakatare and Richard Starlight remained alone in Richard's 
office. They were seated on a sofa, looking out over the vast lunar 
landscape. An enormous dark gray field stretched out for several miles 
before breaking up at the far side into jumbled, light gray boulders.

"What do you make of it, Rock?" asked Richard. "Why did Zimbardo tell 
the entire planet that he was going to pulverize it, and then set his 
projectile on a fly-by course?"

"I don't think he merely made a mistake," said Rock. "He's shown he can 
guide asteroids to near-pinpoint accuracy."

"Hmm, yes...but those were much, much smaller and were aimed at much 
closer targets. You don't think he could have just...aimed and missed?"

"Possible, Rick, but I'm not convinced. Consider this: where did the 
communications from Zimbardo come from? An asteroid base. The Starmen 
told us about this hollow asteroid and that it could be 'flown' like a 
great spaceship. We have seen only one large asteroid coming toward 
Earth. To be blunt, I think Lurton Zimbardo is a liar. The asteroid he 
aimed at Earth is his own base! His threat to slam it into Earth was 
intended to cause panic-and it did! He achieved that without actually 
having to carry out his threat. I think the real threat is what is 
inside this hollow asteroid."

Richard was listening intently. The relief he had previously felt was 
evaporating rapidly. He deeply admired and respected John Rwakatare. 
Rock had a remarkable and rare combination of a filing-cabinet mind and 
an ability to dream. He was eminently logical at all times, but could 
also come up with "leaps beyond logic" in which inspiration confidently 
answered a challenging situation. Now was one of those times.

Richard remembered when Rock had graduated from Starlight Academy 
fifteen years earlier. Richard was in his early forties at the time, 
and recalled the shock that went through the Starlight world when Rock 
was offered the position of Starman but had turned it down. He was the 
only person ever to have refused the honor. He had chosen instead to 
stay close to a young woman whom he loved; they had married and now had 
four young children. Rock rarely left his family, and Richard had 
placed him second in command of Starlight Enterprise.

Rock continued. "We already concluded that the ability to sheath 
spacecraft and even asteroids comes from an alien intelligence more 
advanced than our own race. I think it highly likely that the source-at 
least the immediate source-of that knowledge is the asteroid Zimbardo 
has taken over. We don't know what other capabilities this asteroid 
base has. But we do know that Lurton Zimbardo is bringing it to 
Earth-very, very close to Earth, and that he will be here in fifteen 
days."

Richard swallowed hard and looked away. "Oh my, Rock!-I'm sure you're 
right. In fact, what other possibilities are there?"

"But unless he has defenses or weaponry we haven't seen yet, we have an 
advantage. A slight advantage."

"What's that?"

"He doesn't know that we know where he is or that we have guessed what 
he's really doing."



Robert Nolan and Beowulf Denn made the twenty-six minute journey from 
the Moon to the space station. Robert had been full of chatter on the 
way back, but Wulf had responded only with short sentences, and after 
they had docked they went their separate ways. Robert went to his 
office to call the President. Richard had urged Robert to be the one to 
inform him that the probes had deployed successfully, that the 
microwave net had found the asteroid, and that Earth was not in danger 
of collision. Robert felt the honor deeply and was eager to announce 
the good news.

Wulf found his way to his own private sanctum, saying he wanted to take 
a nap. He set a "do not disturb" code on his communication system. Then 
he prepared another audiodisk, making a brief report of the luncheon 
meeting at Starlight Enterprise. He played it through twice, making 
changes until he felt comfortable with the message. Then he speeded it 
up so that the complete message lasted 0.027 seconds, encrypted it, 
inserted the disk into his personal computer, and transmitted it. After 
the message had been sent, he destroyed the disk and removed all signs 
on his computer that the action had occurred.

He stared out the window at the third planet, a beautiful blue and 
white globe, thinking nothing in particular. After a moment he 
stretched out and tried to take a nap. But he couldn't sleep.



A red light pulsed rapidly on the console near Lurton Zimbardo's chair. 
Seeing the flash from the corner of his eye, he jerked his head around 
and stared at it as if he couldn't believe that it was lit.

"What's this?" he thought. "There's no message due now." He pressed the 
button that deactivated the light, placed headphones on, dialed a few 
knobs on the console, and pressed "Play."

Fifteen seconds later he leaped up from his chair and bellowed. With 
both hands he jerked the headphone cord out of the control panel. The 
wires whipped through the air with a noise like a scourge. Zimbardo 
twirled, his eyes bulging, and flung the headphones from him with all 
his force. The set flew through the command center and collided with 
the opposite wall. Everyone in the room froze and turned to look at the 
pirate leader, and were appalled at what they saw. He was trembling 
with demonic fury. No one moved or said a word. Even Gene was afraid to 
speak.

"They found us!!" Zimbardo shouted. "They found us! The Earthmen know 
where we are! They've located the fleet!! The freighters those fools 
destroyed yesterday were decoys! The Earthmen deployed the real probes 
and they've already found us! They outsmarted us!" He cursed 
vehemently, then growled as if his teeth were grinding on gravel. "But 
I've never been outsmarted! I won't be outsmarted now!"

Zimbardo jumped back into his chair. "Gene! GENE!!" He screamed like a 
man possessed.

"Right here sir," said the young man, coming up quickly to the pirate 
leader's side.

"Crank up all the power this asteroid can give me! I'm going to create 
the biggest electromagnetic pulse this Solar System has ever seen, and 
BURN every last one of those probes out of the void!! And then when we 
are invisible again, we'll move this asteroid to a new course and 
continue our plan."

"But sir," pleaded Gene, almost desperately. "That would take a lot of 
power! It would be highly inefficient and might work against us! I 
don't know the power capacity of the asteroid! It could very well burn 
us out!"

Zimbardo stopped moving for a moment, then turned his head very slowly 
around and stared at Gene. His eyes glinted with an unearthly light.

"Do it," he hissed.

Gene stepped back half a pace, then pivoted swiftly and ran to the 
power breakers on the far side of the room. He began to pull switches, 
override safety indicators, and turn power dials to maximum output.

In a little less than three minutes, he turned and looked back at 
Zimbardo. The pirate leader had not taken his eyes off of his assistant 
for a second. With his mouth slightly open, Gene looked into Zimbardo's 
eyes from across the room and nodded with a quick jerk of his head. 
Zimbardo smiled, inclined his head slowly, and turned back to his 
console. He laughed out loud and pressed the switch that activated a 
general direction EMP.

There was a deafening sound like that of a huge metal block falling to 
the floor and then grinding along an uneven surface. A wailing screech 
filled the room and everyone but Zimbardo covered his ears. The screech 
increased in intensity until men fell to the floor and writhed, 
pressing their hands firmly to the sides of their heads. Then there was 
sudden silence and the lights went out. Men began to moan, and 
someone's voice quavered: "The atmosphere recycler has stopped!"

"Everything has stopped," said Gene from the darkness.



Twelve Firewasps came upon the eighteen pirate ships with a suddenness 
that took the pirates completely by surprise. The small spacecraft 
moved so quickly that the pirates could get off only wild shots that 
never came close to any of the SE craft. The Firewasps used narrow but 
highly dense laser weaponlight with remarkable effectiveness. Skilled 
pilots and marksmen quickly disabled the pirate ships by piercing their 
power supply, effectively casting them adrift in space. The pirates' 
sheathing systems went down, rendering the ships visible. 

The battle was over in less than two minutes. Captain Mary Marks-Owens 
and Richard Starlight received the news within minutes of each other, 
that the eighteen pirate ships were derelicts and their crews would no 
doubt be eager to be picked up by the nearest Space Command ships. 
Without power, their air would not last more than twenty-four hours.

Richard and Commander Lewis made the next order jointly. With a few 
exceptions, all Starlight Enterprise and Space Command spacecraft were 
to journey to the pirates' asteroid at once and prepare for battle. 
They would bring the attack directly to Lurton Zimbardo.

After issuing the order, Richard reset his communication system to 
contact the Star Ranger. Now that the need for secrecy was past, he 
wanted to bring the returning Starmen up to date and urge them to come 
to the pirates' asteroid with the others.

Inside the Star Ranger, Mark cried out, "Hey! Listen to this!" He 
directed the communication system to public announcement mode and 
restarted the message from Richard Starlight. In exultant tones, 
Richard related the events of the previous two days, concluding with 
the capture of the eighteen pirate ships and the coming attack on 
Zimbardo's asteroid.

The Starmen cheered. They all jumped up and danced. After a moment, Zip 
asked, "How soon can we get to the asteroid, Mark?"

Mark sat down and quickly figured. "We're only about a day and a half 
away."

"What are we waiting for?!" exclaimed Joe.

"Let's go!" said Zip. "We could use a little diversion on our way back 
to Earth."

Mark set a new course and Joe initiated it. The Star Ranger turned 
slightly to intercept the asteroid where they had been imprisoned 
nearly three weeks before.



As the power system aboard that same asteroid screeched into disruption 
and then silence, a massive electromagnetic shock wave was dispensed 
from its surface. A great pulse of destruction moved through space at 
the speed of light. Although it was not strong enough to harm 
spacecraft, the microwave probes were no match for its power. As the 
pulse swept past the probes, they winked out in flashes of golden light.

On the master screen aboard the Tempest and in Richard Starlight's 
office, viewers watched the golden net disappear. Although it was past 
midnight, Richard and John Rwakatare were wide awake with their eyes 
glued to the screen. From the center where the asteroid was indicated, 
an expanding circle of darkness went forth, gradually swallowing up all 
the probes. It was obvious to Richard that the microwave net was doomed.

"Computer," he said in a dull voice. "How much longer until the net 
disappears?"

"Four minutes, twelve seconds," came the mellow voice.

"The eighteen ships are adrift," Richard said. "We can't lose them. But 
if this asteroid is maneuverable, as it must be, Zimbardo can speed up, 
slow down, or change course and avoid our attack. He can disappear."

Richard's body tensed and he raised his voice. "How did he know about 
the probes?!" he exclaimed, with exasperation.

"The spy," responded John Rwakatare.



Aboard the pirates' asteroid, power was returning. An emergency backup 
system had kicked in, causing the lights to flicker back on and the 
atmosphere recycler to hum quietly back into efficiency. With covert 
glances back at Zimbardo, the men returned to their stations.

Zimbardo barked out a command.

"Status report!"

"Right away, sir," said Gene, taking his own seat. He attended to 
various dials and incoming signals.

Zimbardo stood up and walked over to the great window that overlooked 
the huge rocket pad outside. There were seven ships left-six belonging 
to the independent smugglers, Jeff Jenner, Lorry, and Captain Kimball, 
and his own personal ship, the Tartarus. Even the Silver Spear had been 
taken by Lorry. The asteroid was nearly empty of men; only his support 
crew, the smugglers and their crews, and a few others remained.

"Sir," spoke up Gene. His voice trembled. He spoke as one apologizing. 
"Mr. Zimbardo. Mr. Lather sent in a frantic message that all eighteen 
ships were under attack. The transmission was cut off in mid-sentence. 
I scanned their location, sir, and detected three large Space Command 
ships approaching our convoy. They are about to be captured, sir."

Zimbardo turned slowly and looked at Gene without a change in 
expression. "And?" he said. "There's more, I can tell. And..."

"And there is a large fleet of ships belonging to Space Command and 
Starlight Enterprise converging on our location. In less than three 
hours, fourteen ships will be arriving within minutes of each other. 
Approximately the same number again will join them over the next 
twenty-four hour period." Gene hesitated, then decided to deliver the 
last sentence. "Even if we are sheathed, sir, with that many ships so 
close, they will be able to find us before long."

Lurton Zimbardo turned his eyes obliquely to the floor and joined his 
hands behind his back. He rocked for a moment on his feet, almost as if 
pondering a challenging philosophical question.

"I see," he said at last. He walked quietly over to his console, sat 
for a moment without moving, then began to move dials and enter numbers 
into the navigational program. He consulted various tables of 
information and referred to a number of measuring devices whose 
sensitive detectors were on the surface of the asteroid.

Minutes passed. Zimbardo grew increasingly agitated as he worked. His 
men had stopped their own work and watched him. Where his hands had 
begun to move gently and carefully, they began to exhibit higher and 
higher degrees of animation. Soon he was pressing his keyboard 
vehemently and muttering under his breath. Once in a while he chortled.

Finally he shouted, "Hah! That will do it! I won't be outsmarted!" He 
pressed the "Enter" button and then roared, "Yes! I win!" He leaped 
from his chair and lifted up both arms. "I win!" he screamed.

As the program Zimbardo had activated was engaged, the power it 
required began draining the emergency resources of the asteroid. The 
lights dimmed and the usual hum of the atmosphere recycler began to 
stutter.

"What did you do?" Gene asked with trepidation. "Even the backup power 
system is being strained."

"Just keeping a promise," said Zimbardo jovially. "I told Earth I had 
sent them an asteroid. I wasn't very truthful at the time, I'm afraid. 
But now I have kept my promise. I have redirected the asteroid so that 
it will collide with the planet! -and I've pushed the acceleration up 
to full!"

A soul-wrenching moan escaped from Gene's lips. He stumbled over to his 
chair and collapsed into it. He stared ahead, seeing nothing. The other 
men were frozen in their places.

Zimbardo strolled over to the wall-screen that provided a map of the 
Inner Planetary system and indicated their position. With the power 
drain, the images were going in and out of focus and numbers were 
fading from the screen.

"Hmm. About ten days to impact," he muttered. "Can't tell for sure with 
the images fading like this, but no matter. By that time we'll be long 
gone."

 A few minutes later the insides of the complex began to screech as 
they had before. The screech did not rise in intensity but gradually 
turned into a groan. The light slowly faded and then went out 
completely.

 "The power is out for good now!" Gene wailed. "and we're prisoners on 
the asteroid! Now it's a runaway! We can't stop it!"

"Why would we want to stop it? We'll take the Tartarus and leave to 
fight again another day! Pack up, get the men, and let's go. We've got 
less than three hours, I think you said."

Panicked, Gene fled from the room, feeling his way desperately through 
the darkness. "I've got to warn Kimball, Lorry, and Jenner! We've got 
to escape!" Fear unlike anything he had ever experienced or imagined 
filled his entire being.


19: Change of Guard

GENE FLEW down the corridor with his arms outstretched, not knowing 
exactly where he was going and not caring, as long as it was away from 
the control deck. He was breathing hard and fast, on the verge of 
hysteria. Realizing that he was in danger of losing his grip, he paused 
to catch his breath, and leaned against the wall.

 A moment later he saw moving lights in the stairwell a long way ahead. 
In the growing gray illumination, he dashed forward and saw Kimball, 
Lorry, and Jenner coming up, carrying flashlights. When Kimball saw 
Gene hurrying toward him, he flashed the light directly into his eyes 
and roared, "What in blazes is going on in this place?"

Gene threw his hands up over his eyes, but continued to stumble 
forward. "You've got to get out of here," he choked out. "Get your men, 
get your ships, go!"

Jenner put a firm hand on Gene's shoulder, and Kimball lowered the 
light. "What's going on? Where's Zimbardo?" Jenner's voice was a little 
quieter than Kimball's but just as demanding.

Gene gulped and looked up. "He-, he's aimed the asteroid at Earth! It's 
on a collision course! He burned out all the power-all the power! He 
can't stop it! He doesn't want to stop it!"

There was a stunned silence. Jenner, his mouth opening and closing like 
a fish out of water, finally blurted out, "Why did he do that?"

"All the men in the fleets have been captured! We're the only ones 
left, and Space Command will be boarding us in less than three hours!"

The three smugglers gasped in dismay. Jenner pushed Gene away and the 
three of them shot back down the stairwell. When they reached the lower 
level, Gene heard them shouting for their men. The light gradually 
diminished until Gene was once again in complete darkness.

"Gene! Gene! Where are you?" came the voice of Lurton Zimbardo from far 
behind him. Startled, Gene quickly whirled and peered into the 
darkness. From far away came a sound as of scurrying feet. There were 
men coming-the men from the control center, with Zimbardo. Gene spun 
again and ran for his own room. He had decided what he was going to do. 
Frantically he rummaged through his belongings until he found his own 
flashlight. Without turning it on yet, he ran from the room and 
hastened farther away from the control center.

"Gene? Gene! Is that you?" came the voice of Lurton Zimbardo. Gene 
inhaled quickly and looked back. There was still no light. He hesitated 
for a moment, then answered,

"Yes, it's me." His voice was squeaky.

"Where are you?" echoed down the corridor.

"I'm not going with you! Go on without me!"

"What?" Zimbardo's voice had a note of complete incredulity in it. "Why 
not? Hurry up, Gene! We have to go! I don't want Space Command on my 
tail!"

"I'm not going!" Gene shouted. He turned and fled. He sped down the 
corridor as fast as he could go, came to its end, turned the corner, 
and kept going. In less than a minute he was many turns and twists away 
from the main level. He switched on his light, put it on its lowest 
setting, and slowed down to a walk. "He won't wait for me! He won't 
look for me! He'll want to go! Soon he'll be gone and I'll be safe!" 
These thoughts came through Gene's mind almost like a flow of clear 
water.

He came to a storeroom, pushed the door open, and flashed his light 
around. The room was crammed with stacks of boxes and various other 
items. Seeing there was no one else inside, he shut the door, crawled 
under a cabinet, and turned off his light.

After a short while, he felt the floor tremble slightly. He knew that a 
spaceship had lifted off. It was followed quickly by five others. "The 
smugglers are gone," he thought. "Just one more now. If I hear one 
more, I'll know that he's gone." He waited, desperately hoping he 
wouldn't hear the sound of the door opening.



After they left Gene, the smugglers Kimball, Lorry, and Jenner quickly 
gathered together their men and supplies and headed for the airlock to 
the launching pad. There were thirty-seven men altogether. All had 
their spacesuits on and most of them carried lights.

"How are we going to get out of here?" asked one of the men as they 
approached the airlock. "The airlock won't open. Nothing's working."

"Portable power pack," said Kimball. He took a small box from another 
man, set it down by the airlock, and in seconds had established a 
makeshift connection. The airlock opened. In that fashion, the men 
boarded their ships without delay.

Kimball lifted off first and entered the vast, stone tunnel that led to 
the outside. As soon as the enormous airlock became visible down the 
shaft, he fired a laser cannon at it. Unable to resist an attack from 
within, the great door, thousands of years old, shattered into 
fragments. The atmosphere of the launching pad rushed out, hurling the 
shards of the airlock door into space. Kimball's ship then came through 
the tunnel and exited, followed in short order by the five other ships. 
They set a course for the Asteroid Belt and at top acceleration left 
the pirates' asteroid behind them.



After Gene had fled out of earshot, Zimbardo turned to the few men who 
were behind him. "I'm lifting off in the Tartarus in ten minutes. It's 
the only ship left on the asteroid. Meet me at the great doors. Tell 
everyone else you see." He swiveled and walked to the stairwell to go 
up to his own rooms. 

None of the men said anything to each other, but scattered, each going 
to his own quarters.

Ten minutes later, arrayed in his spacesuit and carrying a few items, 
Lurton Zimbardo stood at the great doors. Behind him was the asteroid 
complex. In front was the manufacturing center and beyond that was the 
launching pad where the Tartarus stood in solitary splendor. Only five 
men had joined the pirate leader.

"So," said Zimbardo. "Only five of you. Five men left. Who are you?" He 
lifted his light a little so he could see their faces. "Ah, Mr. 
Gebbeth. I said before that I knew I could depend on you. I've always 
known it. You are the pilot. And Mr. Slant. Mr. Stagnum. Mr. Withers. 
And Mr. Poppy. No one else. Well, then, there are six of us altogether. 
Let us go."

There was almost no talking. Each man seemed to know what to do without 
being told. They opened the airlocks to pass through the manufacturing 
center, and then into the airless launching pad. Without haste but 
without unnecessary delay, they entered the Tartarus, a gleaming silver 
and red ship that could support a crew of eighteen.

The six men strapped themselves into acceleration couches with Gebbeth 
in the pilot's position. "Take us out, Mr. Gebbeth," said Zimbardo. "I 
will tell you where to go when we are free."

"Yes sir," said Gebbeth, and initiated the launching sequence. In a 
short time, Lurton Zimbardo's spacecraft had left the asteroid.

"Top speed, Mr. Gebbeth," said Zimbardo. "Make sure the sheathing 
equipment is functioning. Head away from the sun."

"Of course, sir."



When Zimbardo burned out the asteroid's power, much of the energy 
needed to power its sheathing apparatus disappeared. The sheathing 
plates then only received power through the solar energy panels, and 
they did not provide enough energy to hide the asteroid completely. It 
appeared on radar as a faint blip, allowing the Earth ships to locate 
it without difficulty. About two hours after Zimbardo's departure, the 
fleet command ship Tempest came upon the asteroid. It was the first of 
fourteen ships from both Space Command and Starlight Enterprise that 
were expected to arrive within the hour.

The Tempest maneuvered carefully through the gaping orifice left when 
Kimball's ship had blown the massive airlock, and set down inside the 
airless docking arena of the asteroid. Captain Mary Marks-Owens 
descended the ladder first, followed by several members of the crew. 
All were armed. Only the lights of the spaceship lit up the cavernous 
hall of shadows.

"Eerie," observed Captain Marks-Owens as she set foot on the pavement. 
"Follow me. We'll see if the place is as abandoned as it looks." Nine 
space-suited figures fell in behind her as she approached the airlock 
into the manufacturing area. When she was unable to open it, she called 
for a portable power supply. Two additional men brought one from the 
ship, opened the airlock, and allowed the landing party to enter the 
complex. Once inside, the members of the crew were able to dispense 
with their helmets.

Slowly and carefully they made their way through the blackness, pushing 
it back with the radiance of the lights they carried. They were in awe 
of the huge, obviously alien place.

"The place feels almost haunted," observed one man in a quiet voice.

"Somewhat," agreed the Captain, "but there's more to it than that. 
There's something deeper. I don't think this is an evil place. It is a 
place that needs to be cleansed."

The party passed through the great doors. Before they had crossed the 
courtyard a man emerged from the far side, carrying a light. The 
members of the landing party quickly spread out, and the Captain 
ordered, "Halt!"

"Don't shoot!" came the voice from behind the tiny light across the 
room. "I'm unarmed. I've been waiting for you."

"Who are you?"

"My name is Gene Newman. I was the control officer for Lurton Zimbardo. 
He's gone."

"Come forward slowly, hands up." Gene walked forward cautiously with 
his hands extended over his head, holding his light in one hand. When 
he was a few yards away, Captain Marks-Owens ordered him to stop and 
directed two men to search him. When it was definite that he was 
unarmed, she called him to approach her.

"What's been going on here?" she asked.

Gene explained that Zimbardo had aimed the asteroid at Earth, burned 
out the power system, and fled two hours earlier. The Captain's face 
paled as he told the story.

"Radio the ships that are still en route and have them check the course 
of this rock," she ordered one of the men, who put on his helmet and 
contacted the ship. "And tell Mr. Madera to come here at once." The 
order was given.

While they were waiting for Mr. Madera, Captain Marks-Owens quizzed 
Gene further. "Why did you stay behind?"

"I-, I joined Putnam's organization because it seemed a sure thing. He 
was captured, but Zimbardo took over and made it seem an even better 
proposition. But I could see him getting crazier and crazier! I'm not 
ashamed to say that he began to frighten me-and he frightened others, 
too! And when he aimed the asteroid toward Earth..." Gene's eyes 
widened and he began to tremble, "I knew there was something seriously 
wrong with him! I had to get away! I wanted to fix things-if I could!"

"Are there any others here?"

"I don't know. There may be. I haven't seen anyone else. Apart from 
Zimbardo and the smugglers, there were seventeen men left on the 
asteroid. I don't know how many went with him. There were also some 
prisoners-three Starmen and some asteroid miners, but they escaped from 
the room where they were being held and disappeared into the depths of 
the asteroid. I don't know where they are now. We never saw a trace of 
them after that."

"They escaped from the asteroid three weeks ago. In fact, we expect 
them to arrive here soon in their own ship."

Gene's face showed out-and-out surprise at this news. "They escaped? 
They got off the asteroid? How did they do that?"

At this point, they were joined by the young man for whom the Captain 
had asked. He was about thirty years old, with a full crown of thick 
brown hair and deep brown eyes. This was Jesus Madera-Cruz, Chief 
Ioneer for Starlight Enterprise. He was adept with engines and 
micro-electronics. Noted for a placid nature, nothing ever seemed to 
bother him, and his expertise in power systems had never failed the 
trust which Richard Starlight had placed in him.

"You asked for me, Captain?" he asked.

"Yes, Mr. Madera. We need your skills urgently. This is Gene, one of 
Zimbardo's men. Zimbardo has been gone for two hours. Gene tells us 
that before he fled he burned out the power. Before the power went out, 
he also redirected the asteroid on a collision course with Earth. I've 
asked our ships outside to confirm that. In the meantime, I'd like you 
to check out the power system and see if you can bring it back up. 
Obviously, if what Gene says is true, this is a matter of extreme 
urgency, not just convenience."

"Yes, ma'am," answered the man with a brief nod. The Captain detailed 
several men to go with Gene and Madera to wherever Zimbardo's former 
chief control officer wanted to take them. Gene took them first to the 
control deck.

Captain Marks-Owens detailed the rest of her men to search the complex 
in pairs. As other ships landed, minutes apart from each other, she 
directed their crews to the search. After an hour, ten other pirates 
had been located. All had been eager to turn themselves in. They were 
taken into captivity and led to one of the Space Command ships where 
they were fed and kept under guard.

Soon there were over a hundred men searching the facility. Operations 
officers began connecting portable power systems to various parts of 
the complex to reestablish the lights and get the airlocks working 
again. The atmosphere recycling system was not yet accessible, but the 
air would last for a long time.

An ensign brought a report to Captain Marks-Owens during the search, 
confirming Gene's account that the asteroid was on a collision course 
with Earth.

"Details?" asked the Captain.

"The asteroid will collide with Earth in approximately eight days, at a 
speed of nearly 300,000 miles per hour," responded the ensign. "It was 
vastly accelerated for a few minutes before the power burned out, and 
the sun's gravity continues to increase the rate of acceleration. We 
have not yet determined precisely where it will strike, but we are 
forwarding the data to SE and that will be determined."

At that point, Gene and Madera came up to Marks-Owens.

"Captain," said Madera. "I have made a preliminary examination of the 
control system. Gene has been more than cooperative, I am happy to say. 
With his help, just by looking at the controls and hearing him describe 
what Zimbardo did, I can conjecture what kind of power we're dealing 
with. If we can get the power back on, we should not have any 
difficulty in changing the course of the asteroid. Restoring the power, 
however, will not be easy. Gene has never been to the power plant. In 
fact, it seems that no one has, even including Zimbardo. No one knows 
where it is or how to learn its location."

"Go back to the Tempest and contact George St. George and the Starmen. 
St. George is on Ceres and the Starmen are in the Star Ranger on their 
way here. These men have been inside the power plant and know how to 
find it."

"Yes ma'am." Madera bowed his head slightly and turned toward the 
airlock that led out to the launching pad. He showed no signs whatever 
of being ruffled. In sharp contrast, Gene was visibly anxious.

"Gene," said Captain Marks-Owens; "you've apparently been eager to 
cooperate. Mr. Madera is easy to get along with but hard to please. If 
he commends you, I am satisfied that you are not a threat to us. You go 
on to the Tempest also and get some food and some rest, as you need. We 
can't do more until we hear from the Starmen or St. George. We'll want 
you later, and you'll need to be rested."

"Yes ma'am," said the distraught man. He turned toward the SE flagship, 
swallowed hard, and stepped toward the airlock. He ran to catch up to 
Madera.

Captain Marks-Owens watched them for a moment, then turned her 
attention back to the activity of the men who were supplying the 
temporary power to the complex before her. The grandeur of the view 
impressed her.

"This place that seemed so menacing when we first landed is beginning 
to look a little less threatening now," she thought. "Hard to believe 
we are aboard a runaway asteroid that will destroy Earth in eight days, 
unless we can turn it aside somehow."


20: Desperation

THE STAR RANGER sped through space toward its rendezvous point with the 
racing asteroid. Given the urgency of the situation, Zip had ordered 
the maximum acceleration that their bodies could tolerate. Mark had 
programmed their course to bring them as quickly as possible up to 
boarding speed with the asteroid. Having done that, he pored through 
the printed material he had taken from the asteroid's power plant. He 
felt hopelessness creeping over him since he didn't know what Zimbardo 
had done to burn it out.

Zip came over and stood near where Mark was seated with a dim lamp 
illuminating the papers in front of him. The lamp was designed to burn 
with a soft light tinged with the faintest trace of light green, to be 
easiest on the eyes. It was devised for periods of long study.

"Anything yet, Mark?" Zip asked, knowing that the question was 
pointless. If Mark had found even a tiny piece of information which 
could be remotely connected to the situation on the asteroid, he would 
have spoken up.

"No, Zip," replied Mark. "I can follow the diagrams pretty well now, 
and I think I understand how one part connects to another, but I can't 
envision how any part of it could have burned out. I've tried to 
calculate how much power Zimbardo would have needed to generate the EMP 
of the size he did, but I can only guess at it. Even at my highest 
estimates, I can't see how it would burn out the power supplies of a 
huge iron asteroid that can be used as a spacecraft. All I can imagine 
is that much of the power supply of the asteroid had been shut down 
before."

"You mean that its reserves were not in place?"

"Something like that. We have guessed that the asteroid was a huge 
spacecraft. We also know that it had been stationary and abandoned-or 
at least unused-for eons. I suspect that the asteroid's full power had 
never been accessible to Zimbardo. He was able to operate life-support 
systems, lights, airlocks, and so forth in his own section without 
drawing much power. When he tried to 'power up' the asteroid and move 
it out of orbit, he reached the limit of its available power. Then he 
suddenly initiated the electromagnetic pulse to fry the microwave 
probes, but he also fried his own system. But the asteroid must have 
more power than that to be able to do what it must have done in the 
past. You saw the power plant as well as I did! Did it look to you as 
if Zimbardo could have burned that whole thing out with one EMP, no 
matter how intense?"

"Makes sense, Mark. Where, then, is the rest of the power?"

Mark looked up at Zip with a wan smile. "If you want to find it, you 
can help me look through these papers, if you want."

"All right, I will," said Zip, and sat down. Mark handed him a stack of 
paper, showed Zip what to look for, and went back to his own study.

Joe remained on the flight deck, keeping careful watch on the 
instruments. He preserved the Star Ranger's course precisely so that 
there would be no unnecessary delay in meeting the runaway asteroid. 
Before him was a scattering of white stars in the blackness. A few 
large ones stood out.

"Mark would love this," Joe thought, but he didn't bother his friend.



The best minds of Starlight Enterprise and Space Command had been 
working for more than twenty-four hours on the problem of diverting the 
runaway asteroid, and had not even been able to restore power. 
Twenty-five ships had docked inside the landing area, and more than 300 
men were inside the facility. Some had been detailed to explore and 
take an inventory of what was found, others had been ordered to provide 
temporary light and power using portable equipment from the ships, and 
still others worked under Jesus Madera-Cruz in the desperate attempt to 
restore power to the asteroid.

From the communications center aboard the Tempest, Mr. Madera had been 
in contact with SE's best engineers and the Starmen. SE's best hope was 
in the Starmen since they had been aboard the asteroid and had walked 
through its power plant. By electronic communication, Mark had been 
able to provide some of the plans for the power plant to Mr. Madera, 
but the plant was simply too large and too complex for the plans to be 
of much use.

George St. George had given Madera the proper combination of buttons in 
the elevators to give him access to the warehouse, but even after the 
portable units had restored power to the elevators they could not 
deliver men to the warehouse. The elevators would not descend beyond a 
certain level since Zip had previously destroyed all the panels when 
the pirates were pursuing them. Consequently, Madera had had to detail 
men to descend manually through the shaft to the warehouse floor and 
repair the controls at the warehouse level for one elevator. That had 
taken nearly eleven hours.

Except for one brief nap, Madera had not slept since the Tempest had 
landed. Once the elevator had been repaired, he went with about thirty 
men through the same passages that the Starmen had traversed. Since the 
temporary lighting and power had been set up only in the facility that 
the pirates had been using, Madera and his companions walked in 
darkness as deep as the inside of a cave.

Madera hefted a huge but lightweight lamp for use in the power plant. 
To illumine their way through the warehouse and corridors, others 
carried personal flashlights. As they made their way through the 
facility, the lights they carried cleaved the darkness. But behind 
them, the absolute darkness closed up again.

After leaving the warehouse, Madera had to use the codes the Starmen 
had provided to come to the immense power plant. Although the men had 
been told in advance what to expect, when the doors of the elevator 
opened, they were just as awed as the Starmen and miners had been when 
they first beheld the scene.

Though the power plant was completely dark and silent, there was a 
feeling among the men at the elevator door that they were at the edge 
of vastness. Madera activated his lamp and shone it into the iron 
cavern. Its light penetrated about half a mile; in its cone the 
latticework, panels, and tubing were revealed. When Madera saw the 
extent of the plant, he smiled with deep appreciation, then encouraged 
the men to get to work.

He assigned them to three groups. They were to spread throughout the 
plant and search for evidence of any burnout or other damage. The men 
went forth with lights, tools, and electronic equipment. Madera himself 
set out to study one of the power stations and try to learn its secrets 
by personal examination.



At one end of the asteroid was the huge landing facility that Troy 
Putnam had taken over. About two-thirds of the length of the asteroid 
away was the port through which the Starmen and miners had escaped. 
Between was an enormous complex of habitable space. At the lowest level 
was the power plant. Above the power plant was an immense compound, 
secure from any chance encounter by Earthmen. Access could be given 
only from inside, and no Earthman would be able to enter by force, 
short of taking the entire asteroid apart. Indeed, no Earthman even 
suspected it existed.

Inside this compound, several tall, slender, humanoid figures were 
working frantically at a panel. Endless banks of dials, screens, 
switches, and other electronic paraphernalia were set out in the huge 
room where they worked. The room was dark. Several portable lights had 
been set in a semi-circle around the panel where the figures were 
working.

Conversation was minimal and quiet, barely above a murmur. Tools were 
requested and exchanged. A light was brought over and placed so as to 
reveal the inner workings of a cabinet filled with circuits and 
connections.

One figure walked slowly to the far end of the room, carrying a small 
light. He passed through a doorway, traversed a short corridor, and 
entered an enormous chamber. He paced along a catwalk. The power in 
this room was operative. Far above him was an indigo sky with silver 
stars. A pale blue dawn was showing at the horizon. To his left was an 
extensive mirror-smooth lake in which the sky and stars were reflected 
in unutterable beauty. In the lake, trees grew in profusion. It 
appeared to be an orchard in flood time, but it was apparent that the 
trees grew best in a watery environment. Heavy, thick, almost circular 
leaves covered the trees. Fragrant white blossoms promised fruit in the 
next season. On the shore were numerous small boats for skimming and a 
few large ones for working in the orchard.

The catwalk led for about a mile across one end of the lake and had 
several side passages, all on the right. At the fourth side passage, 
the walker turned and passed through an airlock. After he had come 
through the second door, he entered a lightless room that gave an 
impression of immense spaciousness. Revealed in the shadow of his light 
were many horizontal gold and clear quartz capsules about eight feet 
long and two feet in diameter, stacked in rows. Each capsule was 
connected to cables that led into a large box. Boxes were spaced about 
twenty feet apart and each was connected to about forty capsules.

The walker opened the top of the box and peered inside. He raised a 
small communicator to his lips and spoke into it. After receiving a 
reply, he reached into the box with a long tool. A moment later, dim 
lights went on in the room and a very low hum started up. The walker 
smiled broadly and closed the box. Then he retraced his steps.



Captain Mary Marks-Owens woke Jesus Madera out of a deep sleep.

"Mr. Madera," she said, approaching him gently where he had fallen 
asleep in his chair. He had returned to his office and workshop aboard 
the Tempest to study some diagrams he had made in the power plant. "The 
Star Ranger has arrived. The Starmen are waiting for you."

"Thank you, Captain," said Madera, lifting his head and rubbing his 
brown eyes. He ran his hand through his hair quickly, left his room, 
put on his helmet, and descended the outside ladder to the floor of the 
launching pad. He turned toward the control center and saw the Starmen 
on the other side of the wall. They all waved at him. Madera was one of 
the Starmen's favorite acquaintances from Starlight Enterprise. He 
strode across the tarmac and passed through the airlock and hailed the 
young men.

After he had removed his helmet and exchanged hasty preliminary 
greetings, he led them across the quad in front of the manufacturing 
center and through the great doors.

"What have you discovered?" asked Mark.

"I think I can power up the computer system, but it will take a lot of 
energy to do so. I used submicroscopic robotic probes to provide 
detailed maps of the computer in the power plant, and some of the 
wiring, machines, and selected other equipment inside this amazing 
facility. I've detailed men to take portable power packs down to the 
power plant and arrange them in sequence to give us enough power to 
jump-start the computer. When we do that, we ought to be able to get 
into the files you found earlier, Mark. Getting the power packs down 
there is not easy, but with dozens of men working, I estimated that we 
could get it hooked up in a couple of hours. That was the time I was 
taking to study some diagrams I'd made, but instead took an involuntary 
catnap."

"Why didn't you enter the power plant through the hangar from which we 
escaped?" asked Zip.

"We looked for the opening in the place you'd indicated, but found no 
evidence of any kind that there was an airlock. We even tried locating 
it with radar, but the entrance is concealed so effectively that we 
could find no trace of it. We needed the personnel at this end, so we 
abandoned the search. Getting to the power plant through the complex 
here is the long way around, but we knew that we could do it and just 
couldn't take the time to look further on the surface for the shortest 
means of ingress."

"We'll have to find some way to open the airlock from the outside when 
we're not so rushed," responded Zip. "We haven't kept up with the time 
limit. What've we got?"

Madera sighed. "If we can't move the asteroid, impact with Earth will 
take place on Thursday, September 8, at 2:33 p.m. That's about six days 
from now. It will strike in the Atlantic Ocean just north of the West 
Indies."

"How much time have we got to turn it aside?"

"Just a coupla days. After that time, no matter what we do the asteroid 
will still strike the Earth somewhere. But we'll be able to move it."

"You sound confident, Mr. Madera," said Joe turning his head briefly as 
the four of them approached the elevators.

"Don't worry, Joe," said Madera. "Earth is not ready yet for its 
Judgment Day."

Somehow the Starmen believed him. He was not a Starman nor a reputed 
scientist, but he was a man of deep dignity who exuded confidence and 
easily won the affections of the people around him.

Moments later, they were at the site of the activity. The last portable 
power pack had been set up and connected to the closest console in the 
power plant.

"Set?" asked Madera of the technician who had overseen the procedure.

"Yes sir, Mr. Madera."

"Let's go, Mark." The big Starman stepped up next to the console with 
Madera. Mark felt a bit of stage fright. Anxiety coursed through him as 
he suddenly realized that there was so little time left and that the 
ability to turn the asteroid aside depended on him. Having an audience 
of more than thirty men daunted him.

"It doesn't depend entirely on you, Mark," said Madera, appearing to 
read Mark's mind. "Now let's power up."

Mark felt the anxiety drain away. He pressed the power button he had 
discovered before, when the Starmen had been escaping from the pirates. 
The computer screen surged into life. The men cheered, and Madera 
smiled. Joe stretched exultantly and appeared to grow two inches taller.

Zip's brow remained furrowed. He showed little emotion. For him the 
time to exult would be when the asteroid had been diverted. This was 
only a vital step in the process. There were others ahead.

Mark kept his eyes on the screen but spoke to Mr. Madera. "I have a 
theory, Mr. Madera. There must be power enough in this system, and far 
more than enough, to turn the asteroid aside. We don't need to find out 
what Zimbardo's burned out. We should try to get access to the rest of 
the system. The diagrams I sent you show that there must be plenty of 
power. We just have to find out how to turn it on!"

"That's sound reasoning, Mark," nodded Madera. "And probably easier 
than trying to locate whatever damage Zimbardo did."

For some time, Mark and Madera conversed quietly as Mark flipped 
through file after file. Diagrams appeared and Mark's fingers flew over 
the screen as he pointed out what he had learned while journeying on 
the Star Ranger. Madera nodded, and pointed out several connections 
Mark had not seen.

Once, Madera handed a small diagnostic pack to one of the technicians 
and sent him to climb the iron latticework. The man returned in a few 
moments and gave a report. Madera nodded again and turned to Mark.

Three hours went by. Joe's eyes were drooping, but Zip was still 
intent, his eyes on Mark.

Mark clapped his hands and turned to Madera. Madera smiled and raised 
his eyebrows. With an open hand, he gestured to the control panel. Mark 
nodded his thanks and pressed several buttons. The files changed 
rapidly at each new command. Then Mark made fists and clenched a few 
times as if massaging his fingers. Then he raised his hand and prepared 
to press a button off to the side of the panel.

Suddenly he leaped back a foot, his hands lifted as if he had touched a 
hot surface. His face was white, his eyes were wide open, and he was 
breathing hard. His body was trembling as if he were deadly frightened. 
Zip shot forward, pushing his way through the crowd to reach Mark.

"What is it, Mark? What's wrong?" His voice was urgent.

"The power plant-it's thousands of years old!" Mark wasn't looking at 
Zip-he was still looking forward, as if his eyes were being drawn to 
the controls. "Pressing this button..." he stopped and swallowed hard, 
and blinked twice. "Pressing this button is the last step in activating 
the rest of the power plant. It should give us the power we need, 
but-but it's clear that it hasn't been activated for thousands of 
years. There's no way to tell whether it's safe. This is a complicated 
system. If something is wrong," Mark slowly turned to face Zip, "If 
something is wrong, if a bolt has slipped into the wrong place, if 
Zimbardo bypassed a vital circuit somewhere, or if a conduit is stopped 
up anywhere, all the energy this plant can produce could blow back at 
us. The entire works could explode into a million pieces."

Zip looked at the floor for an instant, then looked up again and stared 
directly into Mark's eyes. "You're right, Mark; but there's no other 
choice. You have to do it."

Mark's exhaled quickly. "Oh, I know, Zip-I know. But as I reached out 
my hand, I had a sudden chill that our destruction was a second away. 
It just didn't feel right. And if this asteroid blows into fragments, 
then Earth will be peppered with hundreds of devastating impacts!"

Zip slowly turned and faced the silent crowd. Every face was marked 
with grave intensity. Joe stood at the back, his face drawn and tense.

"You all heard," Zip said. "But you all know that we have no choice." 
No one said anything. A few men dropped their eyes and shuffled their 
feet. Zip turned to Mr. Madera in silent appeal. Madera nodded very 
slowly.

Then Mark wiped both hands on his shirt and slowly reached out and 
pressed the last button.

A distant grinding noise as of gears engaging sounded from far away. 
There was a whooshing sound as of air filling a giant bag. The grinding 
sound leveled off into a bare hum. The lights gradually came on. 

The men cheered. Mark looked relieved. The tension under which he had 
been operating quickly released. His face wrinkled up and tears began 
to flow down his cheeks.

Then the bare hum began to build. It turned into a whine, and then into 
a shriek. The floor began to shudder. Mark wiped his eyes and stared at 
the screen.

"The reaction is starting, but the energy level is climbing much faster 
than it should! Something's wrong! Something's wrong!!"

The men began to hear small explosions. There was a popping sound as a 
flexible tube burst a few yards away. Tinkling glass rained down in 
several places as light bulbs popped with the influx of too much 
energy. Mark began to flip rapidly through files on the screen.

All at once a panel a hundred yards away blew out in a monstrous 
explosion. A burst of brilliant white light blinded the men 
momentarily. As their eyes returned to normal a loud hiss cut through 
the air and continued to build. Yellow and orange sparks erupted in a 
spectacular shower from the damaged panel. Mark turned toward the site 
with a look of panic. Without warning a connector at the panel lit up 
with a coruscating orange color. Unable to handle the power surge, it 
began to melt and fragment. In less than a second, the damage shot 
through the connector and came to where it entered the computer 
terminal. There was a sickening, deep "brrzzz" sound, and the screen 
went dark.

Mark slumped toward the floor. Madera grabbed the Starman before he 
fell and eased him to the iron deck. Joe ran forward.


21: The Asteroid Over Vanuatu

ZIP was already hunched over Mark when Joe came to the front of the 
crowd. A few of the men hovered nearby, which others ran to the site of 
the explosion. Most stayed in place, looking around nervously.

"Is he...?" stammered Joe.

"He sustained a powerful shock," said Madera. "The energy was too much 
for that panel and it backed up to the terminal here. Mark had his hand 
on the keyboard."

Zip was taking Mark's pulse. Mark's right hand was blackened and his 
sleeve was frayed up to the elbow. "His pulse is strong. I think he's 
just unconscious. It must have been quite a blow!"

"Yes, it was," said Madera. "I could feel the power of it just standing 
nearby! But his heart is beating strongly! Let's get him back to the 
Tempest where he can receive some care!"

"What about the power?" asked Joe, getting to his feet.

"Look around you, Joe," said Madera with a wave of his hand.

Joe and Zip looked out toward the plant.

"Hey!" exclaimed Joe. "It's okay! It's leveled off!" The shriek had 
diminished to a gentle hum once again, and the sounds of popping 
conduits and breaking glass had disappeared. "What happened?"

"I think that the panel over there was a huge breaker for this part of 
the power system. Mark was right. There was enormous danger in starting 
the plant up after so long. The energy surged through it and even the 
breaker couldn't handle it very well. It blew up when it couldn't 
handle the strain any more, and diverted the energy it couldn't absorb 
back into the terminal here. Fortunately for Mark, by that time there 
was only a little left." Madera glanced down at Mark. "He's a brave 
man."

"Yes, he is," confirmed Joe with some animation. He and Zip picked Mark 
up. With the help of two others, they carried him to the elevator. In 
less than a minute, all the men were on their way back to the control 
center and the Tempest.

Within ten minutes they were back in the main hall. Through the great 
doors they could see more than two dozen spacecraft arrayed on the 
extensive launching pad.

Mark sighed deeply, then moaned. The four men who were carrying him 
kept up the pace. Joe called out, "Mark! How're you doing?"

Mark moaned again, blinked, then opened his eyes. He stared up at the 
ceiling, appearing not to see anything. Then suddenly he began to 
struggle.

"Hey! Hey, what're you doing?" he cried out. "Put me down!"

"Easy, Mark," said Zip. "You had a shock, but you'll be okay!":

"I'm okay now! Put me down! I have to fix the panel! Where are you 
taking me?"

"Everything's fine, Mark," said Mr. Madera. "The system leveled out and 
the power is back on and controlled."

Mark sank back with another sigh. "Great," he said. "Put me down, 
though. I'm all right." The men set him on his feet, but supported him 
as he wobbled, trying to get his balance.

"Wow! Am I tired!" he said at last. "Somebody help me to my bunk and 
wake me when it's over."

"I'll go with you, Mark," said Joe. With Joe trying to support the 
larger of the two Starmen, the two of them walked slowly across the 
quad to the airlock that led to the launching pad.

"We're still not finished," said Madera. "We have to steer the asteroid 
out of its collision course. For that, I think we'll need some help 
from an unlikely source."

"Gene," stated Zip.

"Gene," affirmed Starlight Enterprise's Chief Ioneer.

Jesus Madera reached for his communicator and asked that Gene be sent 
to him from where he was being held in the Tempest. Madera dismissed 
the men who had been with them in the power plant, then turned to the 
red-headed Starman.

"I'm sure that Joe or even I could pilot the asteroid if we had to, but 
it is best that Gene do it-best for him."

"Of course, Mr. Madera," said Zip. "I understand."

While they waited, the Starman gazed around. Far above was the roof of 
the great chamber like an iron sky. The natural lights of the complex 
once again blazed throughout the structures. The air seemed fresher.

He and Madera watched Gene descend the ladder and jump the last few 
rungs to the pad. Then he turned and paced quickly to the closest 
entrance in the great wall. He came through the airlock, discarded his 
helmet, and hurried to the small group that was waiting for him. 

"We have restored power," said Madera.

"So I see!" said Gene with a great smile. "That's terrific! Do you want 
me to pilot the asteroid away from Earth?"

"That's exactly what I want you to do. Let's go."

The three men made their way along the corridors, hastened past open 
doorways, and took the elevator up one flight to the control center. 
They passed dozens of SE men and members of Space Command. Captain Mary 
Marks-Owens was supervising their work.

Once in the control center, Gene took his seat at the main console, 
glanced at the Starman and the other men in the large room, then stared 
at the screen before him. He scratched his head, then placed his hands 
on the keyboard and activated it.

"Whew!" he exclaimed a moment later. "Well over 290,000 miles per hour! 
It would be better to turn this asteroid aside and pass by the Earth 
rather than try to bring it into orbit, as Zimbardo had planned at 
first. We're going too fast for that!"

"My thoughts exactly," said Madera, seating himself on a stool next to 
Gene. "Let's see how you do it."

Gene plotted coordinates and tracked the trajectory of the runaway 
asteroid, then calculated the amount of thrust needed to pass the Earth 
at a safe distance. He figured how much he could slow the asteroid down 
without putting too much stress on the inhabitants. When he was 
finished, he turned to Madera.

"Okay?"

"Looks right to me!"

"Well, then...here goes." Gene entered the figures into the primary 
guidance system and activated it. Tears suddenly came into his eyes. 
"Oh, please let it be enough, let it be right, let it work," he 
whispered.



The Starmen woke after twelve hours of sleep aboard the Star Ranger. 
Uncharacteristically, Joe was the last one up. He found a note in the 
washroom that read, "We're on the Tempest. Join us for breakfast 
whenever you're ready." He washed up quickly and hastened to the SE 
fleet command ship.

Readily admitted, he found his two colleagues in the dining area. Mark 
and Zip were just finishing a large platter of scrambled eggs and 
cheese, potatoes, freshly-squeezed juice, and hot coffee. "I'll have 
the same, but with tea," he announced, and sat down.

"Yes sir," came a voice from the galley. 

"How're you feeling this morning, Mark?" asked Joe. "How's your hand?"

"Couldn't feel better, Joe! Had a good sleep at last, and my hand 
should be healed in a couple of weeks. It was a second-degree burn."

A few moments later, Gene came out carrying Joe's breakfast.

"Gene!" exclaimed Joe.

"Yes, Mr. Taylor. Just trying to help out a little," said the erstwhile 
pirate.

"He cooks as well as he pilots," said Mark.

"We're safe, then." Joe made it a statement rather than a question as 
he shook some pepper onto the steaming eggs.

"Yes," said Zip. "The asteroid will sweep past the Earth in a week, 
missing it by about 50,000 miles. It will be visible for almost the 
whole night over the south Pacific, like a fast-moving star. Should be 
quite a sight!"

"Then what?" asked Joe between gulps of juice.

"Then what, what?" responded Mark.

"Then where does it go?"

"As Gene said yesterday," explained Zip, "it's moving too fast to enter 
an orbit around the Earth, so Gene steered it into a course around the 
sun. It will take about seven months to circle the sun just inside 
Earth's orbit. Then it will catch up to the Earth and can easily be 
placed into an Earth orbit at that time. Scientists from Starlight 
Enterprise will live on it and try to learn its secrets. In fact, a 
ship will be launched from SE in a couple of days with a crew of them. 
They'll intercept the asteroid and start the exploration right away."

Mark continued bringing Joe up to date. "The Captain's got a team 
replacing the huge airlock on the surface of the asteroid, and the 
temporary power supply packets are being reloaded on the ships. We're 
in complete control of the asteroid now."

"Where's Madera?"

"He finally got a full sleep, then went back into the complex. He can't 
wait to find out how it all works. He's hoping that Richard will put 
him in charge of the exploration team."

Joe scooped a large helping of potatoes into his mouth, then talked 
around it to ask, "Well, when do we leave?"

"I'm excited about this place, and would like to explore a bit myself," 
said Zip, "but more than anything, I'd like to go home. We can leave 
any time we want to."

"I'd like to see Mr. Madera one more time before we go, and then take 
off for home."



A day later, the Star Ranger was well on its way to Amundsen City. The 
Starmen were relaxed, seated comfortably at a small table in the 
lounge, with the ship on automatic pilot. The strains of Bach's Little 
Fugue filled the ship.

Joe asked, "Is that the disk Montezuma Vly gave us?"

"No," said Mark. "That was destroyed when Lather melted the Vigilant 
Warrior. This is just part of our standard library. Beautiful piece. 
But I sure wish we hadn't lost that disk Montezuma gave us. What a 
tragedy!"

"Yes, well, Vly did say that we could visit him again. Maybe he'll give 
us another."

 "I'd like to see him again, but not for a while. I don't want to leave 
home for a long time!"

At the end of their journey, the Star Ranger touched down gently on the 
tarmac at Amundsen Base, near the south pole of the Moon on the edge of 
the largest city in the Earth-Moon system-Amundsen City, with over 
eight million inhabitants. The Starmen debarked from their ship, 
crossed the field and entered the airlock that led into the receiving 
area. Through the second door, they could see an enormous crowd.

"Man! This place is jammed!" said Joe. "I've never seen so many people 
here!" As air filled the airlock, the Starmen removed their helmets and 
tucked them under their arms. Moments later they entered the public 
terminal. A roar went up from hundreds of voices.

"What's this?" yelled Mark to Zip and Joe. He could barely make himself 
heard above the clamor.

"Look!" cried out Zip. "Our families!" With a big smile on his face, he 
pointed to the front of the crowd. There were the boys' parents-Allen 
and Elizabeth Foster with Zip's eight-year old sister, Kathy; Keith and 
Barbara Seaton; and Charlie and Laura Taylor. All were smiling hugely.

"Wow!" exclaimed Mark. "All these people are here for us!"

Although the crowd was being kept behind a light barrier of stanchions 
and ribbons, as soon as the Starmen came through the airlock, Zip's 
sister Kathy ducked under the ribbon and ran toward them.

"David, David!" she yelled. When she was still a few feet away from her 
brother, she leaped and flew into his welcoming arms. "David, I missed 
you!" she cried, snuggling her head into his shoulder. "I was so 
worried!"

Zip smelled the little girl's hair and realized how much he loved her 
and his home. A lump came into his throat and he unexpectedly burst 
into tears, kissed her forehead and her cheek, and whispered, "Oh, 
Kathy, I missed you too, even more than I knew."

Zip's mother Elizabeth had the same red hair that he had, while his 
father Allen had dark hair, now turning a dignified salt-and-pepper. 
But Kathy had inherited the best of both hair colors. Her deep maroon 
hair shone with health. Zip picked her up and she wrapped her arms 
around his neck; then, pressing his cheek to hers, they came to where 
their parents were waiting for him. Joe and Mark, neither of whom had 
any brothers or sisters, were already greeting their parents.



On the evening of September 9, the asteroid streaked through the night 
sky, drawing the awed attention of people all over the planet. It was 
best seen from the island of Vanuatu in the south Pacific from just 
after dusk to the hour before dawn when its glow was overwhelmed by the 
dawnlight. Had the asteroid not been controlled, September 9 would have 
been the first of the last days of life on Earth.

The day after, the President presided at a worldwide celebration in 
honor of the Starmen-a celebration to honor them for their critical 
role in freeing Mars from the clutches of the pirates. The celebration 
had been postponed when the greatest threat ever to menace the Earth 
was engineered by Lurton Zimbardo, and then turned aside.

The Starmen were the subjects of many award ceremonies, dinners and 
receptions, interviews, and parades. With them were Richard Starlight, 
Robert Nolan, Jesus Madera-Cruz, and others who had been instrumental 
in freeing the Earth from destruction. The three Starmen were delighted 
to see Steve Cliff again, for he was honored along with them for the 
part he had played in the liberation of Mars. Jack and Jill were also 
invited, but preferred to remain on the Moon out of the limelight.

The highlight of the celebration was a ceremony on the grounds of the 
capital in New Washington, when the President presented medals to the 
Starmen for their valor. The medals had been fashioned from plates in 
the Gloria, the spaceship that had taken Lee High Eagle to Mars in 
2014, the first spaceship to carry human beings to another planet.

When it was all over, the Starmen returned to their homes in Amundsen 
City for a long and much-needed time of rest.

One afternoon, they were in Richard Starlight's office. Richard had not 
had an opportunity to hear the Starmen's entire story from beginning to 
end. He had invited them to join him, John Rwakatare, Robert Nolan, and 
Beowulf Denn for a relaxing afternoon so that the top four leaders of 
Starlight Enterprise and Nolan Mining Enterprise could hear firsthand 
the complete tale of the Starmen's adventures.

Tea and coffee were provided in a luxurious silver service that had 
been in Richard's family for generations-one of the few heirlooms that 
had been preserved through the Collapse. On the silverware was engraved 
the letter "R," the only clue to Richard's surname that still existed. 
Nearly a century earlier, before founding Starlight Enterprise 
Richard's father Thomas had changed his name to "Starlight" and 
destroyed all records that spoke of his past.

After the three Starmen had finished recounting their adventures, no 
one spoke for a long time. Joe poured himself a fresh cup of tea. Most 
of them gazed out of the panoramic window at the desolate beauty of the 
lunar landscape.

At length Richard said, "Starmen, you've had some exciting adventures, 
and in them you've gained something valuable and lasting: you are now a 
team. You've learned how to work together, how to think like Starmen 
and act like Starmen. You're experienced, proven Starmen now! You 
managed to escape from the clutches of the most dangerous, crazed 
maniac our century has ever seen. And you've had contact, however 
fleeting, with the second intelligent extra-terrestrial race that Earth 
has met-certainly ahead of the Titanians and far ahead of us!

"But as far as Starman's work goes, keep in mind that your adventures 
were the exception, not the rule. I know you've got exciting careers 
ahead, all three of you! You're three brilliant Starmen and you're a 
credit to Starlight Enterprise-but your next adventure could be as 
unglamorous as mapping geological samples in the canyons of Mercury."

"What will happen to Gene?" asked Mark.

"He will be tried with the rest of the pirates. His assistance in 
turning the asteroid aside and the intercession of Jesus Madera will 
probably stand him in good stead when his sentence is pronounced."

"What of the aliens aboard the asteroid, sir?"

"Well, maybe they're still there and maybe they're not. We saw no trace 
of them after your first encounter. My guess is that there were just 
the two of them, maybe a few more, and that they departed from the 
asteroid about the time you did. We have plenty of time now to explore 
the entire asteroid, and if they're there, we'll find them; and if not, 
we'll find whatever traces there are to be found!"

But Richard was wrong. Nothing and no one on Earth had the capability 
of finding and entering the inner sanctum on the asteroid. The 
revelation of the alien inhabitants would come only if and when the 
aliens wished it, and even Richard Starlight could not determine or 
predict when that might be.

Zip said, "But it's not over yet, is it, sir? Whatever or whoever the 
aliens were afraid of hasn't even been identified, much less overcome. 
And there are still six pirates who haven't been captured. Zimbardo is 
still free and we haven't any idea where he is. And the independent 
smugglers that Gene told us about disappeared without a trace."

Richard suddenly looked serious. "You're right, Zip-and there's still 
the matter of how Zimbardo knew our plans. Somewhere in our 
organization he has an ally-at least one."

Wulf Denn set his coffee cup down carefully and remarked, "But for now, 
things are peaceful. There is no danger anywhere, and no sign of any 
threat-and the amazing asteroid is ours to explore!"

"Right you are," agreed Rock, "and there are many secrets it can reveal 
to us. Time enough for us to face tomorrow's dangers tomorrow."

The Starmen were comforted. If even Rock was not on guard, they felt 
free to relax.

"What will you do now?" asked Robert Nolan.

"Well sir," said Mark. "David's uncle and aunt have invited all of us 
to go their farm in West Virginia-our parents and David's sister, 
too-for a long vacation. I love the stars, but frankly, spending time 
in the woods and fields, eating home-cooked meals at a large table with 
fifteen or so people, and sitting in front of a fireplace appeals to me 
more than I can say!"

"I don't blame you!" laughed Robert.

"But don't get too comfortable," warned Richard, with a chuckle. 
"Something will come along before too long!"

"Maybe mapping geological samples in the canyons of Mercury," suggested 
Joe.

"Maybe," said Richard.



A little more than two months later, as the Seatons, Taylors, and 
Fosters prepared to celebrate Thanksgiving dinner on the farm, the 
Tartarus was speeding through the void.

"We've just passed the orbit of Neptune, sir," announced the pilot.

"Thank you, Mr. Gebbeth. We're making good time." Those who had seen 
Lurton Zimbardo in his last hours aboard the runaway asteroid would 
have been surprised to learn that he could be a patient man. As he had 
done almost obsessively since he had fled the asteroid, he sorted 
through his thoughts.

"Hundreds of us reduced to dozens, and then dozens reduced to this 
handful of six. The Superiors promised me power once I had obtained for 
them the access codes to Earth's primary systems. Access codes! That's 
all they wanted, and Earth was to be mine for payment! I did my best! 
But now I will appeal to them directly and they will push these Starmen 
aside without mercy!"

In the next book of the chronicles of the Starmen, JOURNEY TO THE TENTH 
PLANET, the threat to Earth will take new form. In the dark reaches 
beyond the orbit of Pluto, in the near-absolute zero of space, the 
Starmen will finally encounter the overwhelming power of the true 
enemies of Earth.


THE END



Certain words used by George St. George are part of the backwoods 
culture of Davy Crockett, and come from the nineteenth century.

absquatulate depart, run away
exflunct exhaust, beat thoroughly
obflisticated bewildered, confused
ramsquaddle demolish
ripstavera first-rate person or thing
slantindicular in a slanting direction

_________

Future volumes in the Starman series will

* Bring Earthmen face-to-face with Zimbardo's Superiors
* Relate how the pirates are brought to their last stand
* Introduce the spine-tingling new villain, Banjoman
* Describe flilox, the new threat to Mars
* Reveal the thrilling secret of the pirates' asteroid


Here's just a sample of action from the next Starman book, JOURNEY TO 
THE TENTH PLANET:

The long journey was coming to an end. Pluto was about three and a half 
billion miles from Earth, and the tenth planet was more than two 
billion miles farther than that-but coming closer. Its figure-eight 
orbit around the brown dwarf star Nemesis made it unique in the Solar 
System.

Now the Starventure was close enough that the tenth planet could be 
seen with the unaided eye. Everyone aboard was positioned at a window 
in the great cabin just behind the pilot's console to view the 
bi-stellar wanderer.

For moments no one said anything. The planet had been thoroughly 
described to all of them, but no scientific description, no matter how 
accurate, could have prepared them for the actuality.

"It looks as if it is made out of charcoal," whispered Joe finally.

"Or obsidian," contributed Mark in a subdued voice. 

Before long, Joe brought the ship into a low orbit around the tenth 
planet. Over 4,000 miles in diameter, it was everywhere foreboding, 
sapping the spirit out of whoever looked upon it. The Starmen 
themselves were depressed at the sight.

Only about 20% of the planet's surface was anything near smooth, and 
the smooth parts were scattered into many different, small areas. More 
than half the terrain was comprised of jagged planes of crystallized 
material, heaped together as if at random. The planet was covered with 
sharp points and razor-thin ridges, scarred with tortuous narrow 
canyons, and marked with pits and shadows-darkness upon darkness.

"Surface temperature?" asked Zip.

"Minus 342 degrees, just as Dr. O said," answered Mark. "As we 
expected, it has no atmosphere. Whatever atmosphere it has is frozen on 
the surface of the planet."

A man behind them choked. The fear in the room was palpable. There was 
no logical reason for it, but the Starmen wouldn't quibble with the 
crew members.

"I don't want to go down there," said another in a hushed tone.

Now that the great ship had attained orbit, the time had come for Zip 
to announce the name of the tenth planet. The name had been chosen 
months earlier by Dr. O who had discovered it, and therefore had the 
right to determine how it would be known throughout history.

Without any preamble, Zip retrieved the sealed envelope from the 
Starventure's safe. As he did so, the men gathered around him. He 
turned and faced the crew. Glancing into their faces, he could almost 
feel their apprehension.

"It's only a planet," he said, trying to sound normal. "It's just stone 
and ice such as we've seen in many other places of the Solar System." 
He tore open the envelope, unfolded the paper that was inside it, and 
stared at what Dr. O had written.

"Well?" asked Joe.

"The planet's name is Nyx. Dr. O named it after the Roman goddess of 
night."

"And somewhere down there we expect to find Lurton Zimbardo," declared 
Joe, more a statement than a question. He glanced almost casually out 
of the window again. Suddenly he stiffened.

"What's that?" he exclaimed.

"What's what?" cried out Mark. Everyone rushed to the windows once 
again.

"I saw a glint, down there, just beyond that high ridge. It's gone now."

"Check the video feed," ordered Zip. Instantly the cabin was filled 
with excitement.


Like it? Want to see how it comes out? Keep up with the latest news in 
the Starman series by checking our web site regularly. Soon you'll be 
able to ask for JOURNEY TO THE TENTH PLANET by Michael D. Cooper. 
You'll be glad we told you about it!
